At the end of that time, I went off to Australia,
Great. Double-check.
because I get to share that with millions of people worldwide.
♪ I last saw you laughing ♪
anemic job growth all throughout, especially when we
he d been living by himself for two years.
(Video) Magnetic electronic pieces and ferrous paper.
Today, there are very few things
but it can be too much of a good thing.
I thought,  But that s not true. 
have become realities through my work
we are now able to demonstrate to you
They call them Fast Track or VIP tickets.
It was the Cultural Revolution.
When you put all the mental illnesses together,
From that first meeting to the finish line of the race,
you re using, you can collect a lot more.
the peasant uprising in the southern Chiapas region of Mexico
ever to lose their sight.
And people said yes, and they built with these Legos.
I thought about Eleanor Roosevelt.
It teaches you the importance of messaging.
is a key part of how we die.
I highly recommend it for sorting out what it is that you re naturally good at.
we surrounded him in a cocoon of healing.
Now, if your mother ever mentioned
the same age Bruce Lee was when he died.
or are hit by a crisis? 
will develop a little fluid collection around the kidney.
of course embodying so much of it from the 20th century.
to see Sherlock Holmes  apartment,
Because as we all know,
It could become a natural extension,
that keep us where we are.
This shows you a patent landscape.
I ll tell you: 158.
So it wasn t surprising when he came into clinic one day,
uncertainty and inconsistency at each step of this process.
to really measure what we know made headlines,
keep pushing for the next battle.
One certainly can t argue with those numbers.
and I think it s a wonderful one.
I think it s a team sport.
In virtually every case of corruption that we ve investigated,
what you get is something called social capital.
It took him, by his estimate,
If you raise questions about that formulation,
And then came the next stage of the equation.
So now it s going from fish and sharks into reptiles,
Thank you.
When I was a kid, my parents would tell me,
but survive we have.
when I was standing with a number of the football players.
by these types of world-flattening digitization technologies, right?
When I look around, I see people who want to make a contribution.
were barbaric,
LT: Just being with her sucks the life out of me.
It gets colder at a much slower rate, and then it starts warming up,
so I built him a website, it s over here.
accompanying the Higgs boson.
and that is to truly make good public space,
It was a conversation between two women.
Today s hit single is not last year s hit single.
Driving ourselves.
This started out as a screensaver app
Do you figure out,  What on Earth am I here for? 
So seductive was this idea,
or anything else we want to ask.
or maybe the birthday you donated for fresh water.
I walked away as fast as I could.
I and the other designers
that took place after the election.
PM: Well, as we grow older,
What part of this do people not understand?
That s about what you d expect.
what happened
they do this very interesting survey every year
the province of Shanghai, China.
On the left is Manhattan today:
But they have other communication signals they use.
And I said to him,  Ed, when did you realize
could just be thrown off the back of the ship,
And around the world, satellites and warning systems
and they only know Skype.
two, provide a bank account under your control
as part of a lineup to ensure our species safe passage in space.
Mechanical engineers design air handling units
for us to complement these bulky electronic giants
to be standing guard over?
And my neighboring homes heard about this idea.
Four days after I put that appeal online,
and then charge the pharmacy budget of the clinic.
Whites were largely unscathed.
I actually know sound.
somewhere on the other side of the globe,
So we can be better, and the world can be better.
over the Mediterranean into Europe so far this year,
But when we ve seen quality tests --
But with our very special window,
celebrate it, close it, and recognize that we need a chapter two
We just can t help ourselves.
on the basis of whom it excluded.
We videotape them talking with their wives about their deepest concerns.
total wages paid out in the economy,
how would we make our plants cold-tolerant?
when you re reaching for that piece of chocolate,
that he lets me dress him up
students were given exams,
that it s in the earliest Islamic biographies.
And he just smiles.
to deal with what is scarce, which is energy.
but when I was young,
Aging is basically a process that happens to inanimate objects like cars,
So it s not multi-touch as a whole that s patented.
And you enter that space,
in a healthy way.
in some parts of the world
could not manage to bleach an ink, called  indelible, 
I d like to play a song for you.
Thank you. Anyway, we would fill up with our own adrenaline
and Mouaz could not continue his studies,
but more years in prison, I guess, even worse.
but it s very inefficient.
(Laughter)
to capture slow-motion video,
And just in summary, no matter how far I push this, I can t get it to break.
we developed a low-cost press that allows you to produce charcoal,
I hoped that my reality would change
Poor kids need that experience.
But a wonderful guy he was, wonderful philosopher.
and allows that air to pass through, so those are two different
María Rachid (Spanish): I always say that, in reality,
to the island of Madagascar.
The government has all this regulation and bureaucracy around things
They use what I call a highly tuned chemical arsenal
I make organic things which are essential.
And good, close relationships seem to buffer us
I still remember, though, when I left my parents  home
or you can lease a solar system.
You ve got it in your brain; you ve got it in your lungs.
We plutocrats need to get this
And you know, there s a new version of Windows coming out this fall.
So Shadi and one of his sisters, they fled to Libya.
I cried in the bathroom while I washed out the pump equipment.
Why? Because as your attention shifts to your cell phone,
It ll be just like it was in 1985,
20 to 60,000 miles an hour, they vaporize on contact.
who can thrive in low-oxygen conditions,
and second of all, I m American and I m already here.
the chemical element that can kill the average human being.
laws prohibiting it are being challenged in the courts,
So we switched our models,
you have environmental benefits.
of how that changed the conversation to accommodate that awkwardness,
a young, pro-business recent graduate
All these people know each other.
The geneticists laughed. But this was six years before Dolly.
and one of the things that happens at that moment
allow me to share just briefly,
 Men fear that becoming  we  will erase his  I . 
You have invaded me in the most sacred way.
The warden said the unit was to  control revolutionary attitudes. 
is it s going to turn those pages into Lego blocks.
So this could be our bridge. And we zoom right in.
but star stuff that happens to be conscious?
Now, it turns out
Now, I ll just give you a little taste of what it looks like
that came from specific parts of speech,
The idea was that it would be not only a laptop,
as she s singing  Itsy, Bitsy Spider, 
to supply itself with nutrients so it can grow.
But robots flying overhead can easily spot this autonomously
but this science has given me a whole new appreciation for stress.
is very, very different,
because my parents told me it would bring me luck.
and how they got to be made.
flowers are always gray,
The hospital s maternity ward was really stressed out
Suddenly, my family was thrown into the middle of a nightmare,
how I pursue perfection, how I cheat the impossible.
my idea being that I would never have to think about the sweater
Do you remember when you used to beatbox me to sleep?
who lose loved ones -- brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, parents.
LD: There was just one problem.
nobody has to tell you,  Don t wear hats on your feet. 
to those questions.
 Yes, but how long will the program be? 
As citizens of a planet in trouble,
that architecture is about making buildings.
what does he need the car for?
illustrates the value of the approach.
the way you value the world. They change the way
But boys are not immune to this either.
But what about the 300 million guns
So, this is quantum locking -- actually locking -- three-dimensional locking of the superconductor.
And, as he picks up a product,
The result is that a primate brain
[ Horse ] DB: Yellow. Audience: Yellow.
What is important to record here today?
including the terrible tragedy
brought about a loss of hope for the city.
Don t you have a husband waiting for you? 
a different spirit, a different feel to our lives,
They re frequent travelers.
that convinced me that I will get safely to the other side.
and I can tell you this man doesn t slow down for one second.
a lot of environmental noises, so the wave energy,
that are saying it anymore.
And what are you going to do,
and we ve only begun to scratch the surface.
If, for any reason, they feel that this might not be possible,
for example, with the idea of cryonics.
her definition of empowerment was very strange. (Laughter)
It zooms it off to the appropriate person, it tells you
Millions and millions of people
She never missed a day of school, K-12.
so exposing people to radiation, potentially harmful.
Algorithms are faster. No. Processors are better. No.
in the same way that gasoline prices are a signal
these classic port cities, places like Lisbon, Mombasa,
and it s a media revolution.
and there are all these sorts of graphs
have slope angles around the critical value,
We re facing very tough challenges.
I say we re going to take a long-lived strain of mouse,
Now, try to build a bicycle without knowing that pi is 3.1416.
in a relatively short period of time,
that could withstand the radiation that would be created in the LHC,
But I also started thinking, here s our introduction.
I want to talk to you about the future of medicine.
PM: And one of the things that I read about female friendship
one of the most beautifully designed
 Well, you know what that means, don t you? 
and it constantly hangs and bombs --
JS: Well, how come?
Instead, everything we touched we killed.
Happy 50th anniversary on your flag, Canada.
She has two sisters.
They were actually going to go --
But these are the kinds of issues that people don t understand.
see it diminishing after a year.
about why you re not going to look for your passion.
I remember my first drawing lessons in school
as a bunch of contradictory feelings.
and now it is August,
I began to search far and beyond my neighborhood.
Think about which you find easier to use,
about some imagined future.
where I was doing two things.
They orient to the caregiver.
Your friends or family would report you missing,
Okay, now I promised you to tell you some
for us to obtain French nationality,
They never even got out of their clothes.
I chose one with the skin color of a lobster when sunburnt.
Something as simple as using a public restroom
and if we get horrified then we have to do something about it.
health problems associated with pollution and more odiously,
This is in Calais.
which we run every two weeks of the year in Formula 1
So this is how much people agree with the conclusions
Number one: Don t multitask.
An HP report found that men will apply for a job
 We d like to do three or four thousand in our country to see how it works. 
But now we ve got together a diverse group of people --
my father was positioned on the bank of the river Waal
But it turned out there was a technical twist to Carol s case.
she was incredulous,
What I really hope is that people are beginning to understand
And the reason is,
is that once upon a time,
where people suspend their judgment.
and we found we were so in sync as women,
big oil, gas and mining operations,
It s a tough question. I still don t have a perfect answer.
(Laughter)
that we inherited were all based around this question
that makes you seem more powerful?
then the universe would have been torn apart,
That was eradicated, so that got down to zero.
you can produce 50 percent higher torque
historians, artists, press, the general public --
I changed it when my family decided
You can see a progression here --
All of this choice has two effects,
Of course, it s fair, it s right and it s just.
people from across the globe had difficulties to place me in a group,
which is,  Yeah, right. 
are not only for those couples that get married.
when you cough or sneeze,
but it s not simple.
An aromatherapist began coming to the care home about once a week.
all the different animals.
in terms of the predictability of time frames.
is the result of deforestation.
something that they really struggle with.
That s the second lesson that I ve learned.
There s just not enough characters at this point
or Alzheimer s.
and consumption has risen globally.
And that lack of resolution, the lack of resolution in  Girl with a Pearl Earring  --
(Laughter)
they still cared so little for this animal that they threw the body in the dump.
if what I said was in line with what they expected.
but actually in a survey, many business leaders
and as little as a vowel from our target talker,
But what would it take,
Let me tell you what they are. First one: certainty.
I think there was a feeling that
And we dropped down,
as physical exercise?
and the company --
Now, extinction is a different kind of death.
with all the things that have been talked about the last two days.
interacting with technology as if we were machines;
that you actually wouldn t expect as being the result of rationality.
At the heart of this movie is you
Cinema is arguably
that inspires me as a creator.
I dream of technology
of the diagnostics is completely out of reach.
Now when we do that, we discover some startling things
 Yeah, me neither.
beyond our ordinary range of perceptions.
and it s going to be coming out next year.
Another group got an environmental message.
actually the very game I showed you at the beginning,
You don t have an emotional sonorousness.
I m deciding what I want to choose.
that they re intended to be used.
was access to yachts or fancy vacations or BMWs,
Her virginity statement was not a piece of wishful thinking.
What are colors doing to us? 
Turns out there s some exceptions to that rule.
with a problem.
on how to deal with the mental health population as well.
Why?
Think of it this way:
Well, we call him an underdog because he s a kid,
on these coral reefs around the world,
We re moving into this future where the factory is everywhere,
to kill off the weeds in our farms.
So we need to think about, well, do I agree with him?
the last passenger pigeon alive.
with her mind and this is what s happening with her brain.
as a human,
because that s what the USAR team said they wanted.
I could place digital information, or output information,
This is an absolutely beautiful way of working.
where we mash up these two things which don t go together
and then making them public --
The first thing you can see is that the bubbles were a lot smaller, no?
is a foregone conclusion.
are on hand.
either pushed out through Amazon
well, something is still wrong.
It s about the same as yours and mine.
And that s exactly what we did here.
and of course I kept thinking of sex when I looked at him,
and it happened here in Toronto last year,
I m standing in a room across the street,
And if I believe it, and you believe it,
and their families.
the United States actually has quite a strong track record
but sadly, there are only enough available lungs for 2,000 people
It s very hard to get, of course.
(Applause)
JN: Thank you Alex, bye bye.
So I get a lot of questions about,  What are you doing in that lab? 
And Holly Morgan told me that she used to battle depression
and so much needs to change:
I m going to put one extra little footnote in here,
And so they re now becoming part of this
And it means that a building doesn t have to be beautiful
It took me years to see the sentencing
is going to be vulnerable. It s going to have bugs.
It could destroy the Great Bear Rainforest,
HW: So help me out here:
Thank you, Yuval, for making the trip.
have changed my life.
I appreciate it. Bye-bye.
and the funny thing is that,
So to try and get through today,
Couples like this one,
 You know, I am a virgin,  she told me.
 Tonight we are going to make a baby. 
Don t try that one.
It s like Santa Claus without the seasonal restrictions.
and a few other African countries I m familiar with.
Not very long ago, not many thousands of years ago,
we ll have a potluck dinner.
And the first is pretty obvious.
or know where they re going to go.
it changes their color from transparent to bright red,
reverse the progression of prostate cancer by
and people all over the place and chaos
Some people think when we talk about contraception
This violence, this brutality against black men
None of the straight lines are actually straight.
That first beep was Usain Bolt.
The first problem is it s pretty big.
does to people we think we will never see and never know.
I made sure to follow that very closely.
whereas the unemployed are extraordinarily unhappy and depressed.
And when you think about it, it was costing us 30 dollars.
so lots of things which are visible
Which brought us to this.
And that s what I m going to talk to you about today.
from one of those awful bullets.
things that we ought to be thinking about, forward planning
So let s go out further, till we re outside the galaxy, and look back,
And I said to her,
is the equivalent
In my lab,
you have a self-contained system.
All the editing is done by volunteers.
and found the results that I guess you d expect to find
It has no nutritional value, so they don t feed it to the animals.
It s a reusable mug. It has all these things printed on it.
that would be something that people could easily cook with,
YR: I used to read Spider-Man comics,
There are 1,600 people, I believe.
but it s actually very different,
That was a miracle, but it was workable.
But that s not even all of it, because once a drug is approved,
you get a very even distribution
watching her child develop this disease and standing by helplessly.
and Ford playfully turns to Reuther and says,
Others of them managed to extend the lives of their clients,
But I think that my interest in ideas of identity was born here,
but not really belonging to either one very well
a grand total of 883 feet
The analysis concluded
And the kids, they love it.
I was on a TV talk show opposite four white men.
or try to stop the wave or look back at the wave,
the average time a refugee will spend in exile
And I had access to all the best girls. It was fabulous.
at the peak of his popularity.
to implement the strategies we talked about.
would never have been found.
The poor also are willing to make, and do make, smart decisions,
Any one of those elements you could sort of hang on the wall
Themes have included runs for the environment,
decided to try to fight this disease using genetic engineering.
And there stood two boys, each about 19, in white, starched short-sleeved shirts,
when you die, God will punish you and send you to hell. 
that target these core mechanisms
This picture, which I pulled off the web --
You collect interest and do nothing in between.
The project s also made a big difference in the lives of the retouchers.
Well, if you take those out, they hold water great,
doesn t mean that Torajans don t aspire
Even on the first view, your eyes will successfully
I spoke in our language, and of course they spoke back, they replied,
taking apart and putting back together again.
The other thing it does is tells us something about energy policy.
If you live in a part of the world where per capita emissions are already high,
happens just blocks away from where my grandparents live.
These are the same stickers used on big trucks
So it is good for business.
and that device is reputation.
and yet they were infantilized by travel.
(Laughter)
and you re an inconvenience
In Africa there were countries fighting for their independence:
is to foster something I like to call social Pan-Africanism.
and how many of us allow that fear
that by the end of 2007, this bubble
not only tapirs
then our survival is on the line.
And if we were to go down that route what I would say is,
inside the brain and edit this movie clip
goods and services to the poor.
When cities interact, they interact like this.
are moving to Oklahoma City from all over the region
We could see which children got more seriously ill:
report higher levels of marital satisfaction.
So, the law is also dependency-related.
The people change everything, and this is why --
But if we went with this, or some configuration of it,
When I was 27 years old,
But there is also a lot that I can do.
I just borrowed that, I ll return it in a second,
throughout the world, and I hope, through that process,
But let me first elaborate, just a little bit, on a basic principle
so kudos to you guys for arranging
and the mom would shoot a chilling stare at her kid.
on digital fabrication.
And Singapore proposes by 2060
at the time of the accident,
(Audio) NR: (Laughs) Um, no. No, we got this.
After you ve forged meaning,
There will always be waste. I m not that unrealistic
LN: It smelled kind of like singed flesh.
for the benefit of nondisabled people.
to nurture the entrepreneurial spirit
so we enriched our cultures with phthalates
and they got the same result for each one.
TB: Many people after a kidney transplant
for the past three decades,
(Laughter)
Lighter and more slippery autos
You ll have some with really long necks,
Certainly when I m traveling,
Now, fusion is often criticized
The engineers amongst you will recognize  rapid prototyping  and  CAD. 
or having a cup of coffee.
 We marched with Martin Luther King,
But we re not going to have new exit strategies for arguments
There s one community of children in southern India
Will the vaulter stick the landing?
Francis Collins: So what would you like to say to researchers
but it is hopeless to be angry with the people.
in Britain, France and Canada put together.
What if -- (Laughter)
but the main changes are actually to the brain networks
to the Pentium.
at being able to determine what was in front of the camera
on these more asymmetrical approaches to it,
the pipes clanking and contributing.
going there instead of going
They are doing it because of one motivation only.
Show me the evidence. 
commodities or currencies had a tendency to trend.
when we launched our  Africa Investigates  series
suited only to this one specific environment,
but of an encyclopedic museum,
Researchers estimate that just one cup of golden rice per day
rehearsed what I would say on the beach.
based on biomedical research
Getting me all wound up, now!
an elderly guy who lives in the village,
health care services, primary education
and he was a self-taught illustrator and musician.
and waited my turn.
or repatriating expats.
I d like it back.
because of a disconnect between the employers
not one woman could have a decision-making authority,
And they should be able to use one of these birth control methods
Can t we make better stoves?
But right now,
When I asked people their associations with the wheelchair,
I felt connected not only to an African independence movement,
I worked and studied hard to move up the career ladder,
At that time, there was no vaccine available against polio.
poverty worldwide,
and can never be without some element of education.
RNG: How could a reasoned argument logically entail
But here s the good news.
how we say what we say,
allow me to point out an interesting paradox
when we feel like we ve put in a good day in the job search.
The most important changes facing us today
(Applause)
so when I witnessed this, I went,  Oh no. 
So my mom was happy, and that made me happy,
in the ongoing war crimes trials.
and you re staying here illegally
This shows the growth of Wikipedia -- we re the blue line there --
The Netherlands is not at war.
which gave the piece a soothing, ambient quality.
was waiting for death to finally release me,
In fact, I have just an average memory.
Now, of course, I can bring up a keyboard.
bought wetsuits and drowned in what seems to have been an attempt
Women in the audience, I have some
These are the invisible things that you never see in your life.
of every invention or innovation that s occurred in this country,
In each movie, you re going to see a baby doing maybe
which is a technique used by many other conservationists around the world.
to his every discomfort,
 Yeah, that concert was amazing. I really loved that concert. 
I was given the gift of a miracle,
because if you think about it, you re at the dung pile,
and since then, we have never experienced any problem with lions.
From Eric Mazur, I learned about peer instruction,
Most of our planet is actually made up of the sea.
coming from the brain that play this very function
that we were seeing a shift in zeitgeist,
This is purely hypothetical, I can assure you.
While we may not be sure, one thing is certain:
Much of it was content I never would have found
to apply our accumulated knowledge
So there are two interesting parts about this.
Diplomacy had failed to stop the Germans.
this is not something that you have to test.
If you were tone-deaf, you couldn t change the gears
It s something of an Internet typology pattern,
At this decisive moment in Dutch history
Now, this was a dreaded question
So that awesome little kid,
Roswell s a great place to launch balloons,
as cultivators of curiosity and inquiry,
back into this complicated 12-dimensional space,
built and unit-tested in isolation from the rest of the project.
I hated going to class at 8 o clock in the morning,
Would more people show up?
and then at nine weeks is really kind of a little human being.
Improve interpersonal feelings,
are by bicycle.
really is much more effective than either one alone.
Humans love information.
in this little box in New York,
I was trying out so many different combinations of this.
the tenderness, the vulnerability.
and speech synthesizers,
So it actually works.
CA: And your own work took an idea like this and moved it
we always look down on plans,
 If you want your ransom come and get it.
This boy is now in university
and also for this artwork
I ve been incarcerated for 39 and one half years.
per square mile in cities.
And at this point, hundreds of people have participated.
Disgust has been comparatively rare,
(Laughter)
instead of a series of interviews,
without creating new forms of brutality and waste.
to make people better sooner, recover them quicker.
has dropped by a factor of 30 since the Middle Ages.
and when the authors looked at whose tumors shrank,
had no movement from the neck down,
I think you d have to conclude, if you look at the output,
with their own issues of helping their own populations
we weren t, I would say, exactly sure how to be great parents.
men and women coming home
secure good working conditions
Reality was not that easy.
The therapies will be improving faster than
and actually, the more I tried to address them
Reputation is the measurement of how much a community trusts you.
Isn t that cool?
You re watching happiness be synthesized.
Be interested in other people.
Joan said it was through my words that she fell in love with me.
and those two transformations, the economy and the structure
is could we eat them?
of avoiding the two-degree target.
(Sings)  Ah, the first time that I made love to a rock shrimp -- 
Basically, the blue lights pulsating indicate that the exo is ready to go.
Today, I m going to talk to you about sketching electronics.
The majority of those 23 years
not much drama.
that for each one of us, we have a kind of a core, an essence.
had not been vaccinated
but they treated me the best they could.
during my speech here.
And because I wanted to impress you all with slides,
wanted me to do.
in the face of a story,
as the game unfolded,
which brings a lot of anxiety and fears
You can do two-tone singing,
In 2007, I was doing a research fellowship
we need two things.
not because they were criminal masterminds
to change the flow of information in the brain.
Even in our  worst,  I saw human stories.
And they all contained childhood trauma,
And I m going to show you what it can do.
like invisible ink.
It was the first time in my life
but within 10 minutes of them finding their lost photo,
The unfairness of it all made me want to be a defender.
or materials.
We ve got cell phones
and they re spread all around, so whenever a call comes in,
We complain, we tweet, we protest
you re actually better off
and I had little appreciation for how the decisions I would make
On your right is an eight-year-old.
This is one of the reasons why it s called
monitor Internet traffic.
international concern on a scale that we hadn t seen in recent years
working on various forms of de-extinction,
setting in motion a cycle
navigated and innovated through risks.
were no longer allowed to travel.
the next day I liked it a bit better, and now I really love it.
it will be below 100 dollars --
if we find ourselves in a protected bay
He never faced a judge or a jail,
The results?
that we could eradicate in our lifetime.
they come within inches of each other.
He applied to college,
the delicate organs and yet still achieve the coverage
Christopher had accomplished -- and making a lot more money than me --
You create more value with lower cost.
by those governments over the last four years,
But as they work together, something starts to change,
the Movement for Global Mental Health was founded
We re even going back into some
Because in this,
that there was one fly that carried the bug.
I even helped a young man
who was so afraid of the older gang kids showing up after school,
So brain research has shown that the adolescent brain
but those methods are sometimes like, when the media is constantly saying
Without any guidance from the regulators,
with the president
The next time there s a local district attorney s election
don t amount to a hill of beans in this crazy world. 
Now, the negativity threshold,
tells you that we should not restrict this network
I don t mean children. I mean the child of the state.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. (Applause)
(Laughter)
So you get the idea here.
Chris Anderson: The rights of citizens,
I am both a magician and
but at the current level,
Who could blame them?
are coming true.
since I had the experience of being a ninth grade kid in Birmingham, Alabama,
usually by a little kid:
shared a common set of grievances
so we d better assess, how are we doing on these goals?
on December 13, 2001,
it really does seem to be sometimes overwhelming.
So for the next two years, that s what I did.
So when, a year later, Turkey s Gezi protests happened,
that I was somehow doing something un-joblike
to build new things with.
MT: There are two colors in a deck of cards.
that was just spreading from manufacturers in Japan
And what they do, then, is advertise this toxicity
 Oh, you re feeling depressed? Just shake it off; it s all in your head. 
(Applause) All right.
and supplies that are produced all over the world, literally,
but the back was completely crushed.
we had the first test of a self-driving car
less and less sensitive to the plight
there were no legal protections
(Laughter)
transcendentalism like their last name was Thoreau,
where I could touch and play with the various brain structures.
people would stop me and say,
We tell ourselves a story about other people s lives,
Just imagine for a moment
Now, when we re thinking about starships,
(Laughter)
And by 2010, we are actually 80 percent of humans
because they forced me to look at my life honestly,
And what you can see is that,
They re challenging the idea that
but that granite edge, those lights,
It s really scary, this gay lifestyle thing; it s super duper evil and there s no end to it!
like how a festival helps a city to express itself,
It worked exactly as well as anybody would have predicted.
Less than 10 days ago,
Thank you.
there are some unusually rounded edges in the swimming pool,
You just mix up some pollen, sugar and water,
like an action figure --
That leads to productivity.
They re also true no matter which ethnic group
in real time it s understanding these pictures
that view is a bit too close to simply
(Laughter)
and getting further and further,
when we focus on them as individuals
So the real key question was,
because this bling helps the female lay more eggs
And there s sometimes a debate among technologists
But in this sense, you actually can look into the future,
it s really good at smashing them into each other.
In thinking about biofluorescence,
and the beetle climbs on top of the ball
So I grew up in Orlando, Florida.
we make a colossal mistake taking it for granted.
It s a show produced by murderers
communities where economic livelihoods have been hampered:
And I believe that magic and puzzles are the same
And I think it s because spiritual emptiness
and that s a philosophical position as well as an aesthetic position.
When I was a child
And I d like to do that with a couple of examples
with a life that most of you all
They understood that their abilities could be developed.
But, for an idea that is so broadly accepted in private,
I know it sounds like a little thing to you, but --
what do you see? 
but by interacting with the world,
But today I want to tell you a different story.
But I had a bit of an epiphany,
The thing to keep in mind is that
it s about healthy life, you know --
One even asks, like you just saw,
And these things are really a global failure.
and they d smile in the reflection of it,
We ve come a long, long way since then.
What my lab does is develop computational techniques that allow us
not exactly that picture, one just like it.
And so we thought perhaps there might be a better way
It begins with the murder of an innocent human being,
Two years later, one -- zoop.
People worry about overpopulation; they say,
known as a state habeas corpus appeal.
and sent her down to Earth with a box,
every nomad will have clean drinking water.
This is the most important slide that I ve ever seen in public health,
and we tried hundreds and hundreds of these.
There are another 600,000 women [per year]
what do crows and fish have in common?
how to be heroically awkward.
And the best thing is, they ll also last
The next thing we did was to understand,
and what I ve seen from being in this access to information field for so long
We re not talking about abortion.
It would have been inappropriate for Vermeer
This forest was almost completely cleared
It happens to some of our phylatic cousins,
(Applause continues)
and this number has never significantly declined over the last 15 years.
When I explained to her that I was with a woman instead of a man,
Let s look at some videos of what happened when we tested these new drugs in worms.
Then we made the connection that areas that have been doing
and when I m talking with people,
and turned it into something it was never meant to be,
And then what is the role of the various institutions
to build a better world.
So the challenge for me was to design type
So if we go back, also thinking about four degrees,
and it s in these small details where
to any would-be predators.
and billions of objects,
My dad left me alone in the car
(Laughter)
PM: You re adding decades to our lives right now.
If you took the difference between today s image and yesterday s image,
I m not for that.
but no.
He makes it into Algeria, walks into Libya,
to look at architecture finding simple but affordable solutions
so we had to do what s called dynamic scaling of the frequencies
So then, what do we do about that?
I could go through a dozen more examples:
without considering the liminal space between disciplines.
this one goes very similar to this.
is really high in protein. It s really good for bees.
you will see that while population increases,
and basically inside-out it in her own body.
in the spring, frogs will dig themselves to the surface
having to use most of their energy to move their obesity.
is they can walk you gradually down a dead end.
I want you guys there,
that s OK by us, too. 
It took focus. It took dedication.
without judgment of social and physical consequences.
It was an amazing feeling.
and seeing his friends get killed.
And so now, Bill and I have three.
It is extremely expensive. 
or your religious beliefs,
the remaining imperfections in the therapies are catching up with us.
I want them to feel the way I did --
we ve been receiving numerous comments
to try to study the processes that were being used
This energy that is in your arm will not be in your legs.
so a disease mutation should fall within that site.
RealTimeWWII is an account
that were being intercepted.
before I have another. 
Do you ever feel like you re always listening to people who agree with you?
that came before the four chapters of the death penalty story.
Almost all of the transactions you do
How do I keep them safe? How do I keep them alive?
It s about industry as opposed to the survival of a people.
We explained we would have number three mailed to them.
that there are five different modes of intervention,
just because
I don t believe in smart homes. That s sort of a bogus concept.
it sounds incredibly selfish, self-centered.
because the medicines slow down the progression
We see organizations like Dow Chemical
By autistic standards, the normal human brain
Lastly, I want you to applaud the people who actually create the future,
This is a very powerful idea.
it s the Luton News,
And there came then the big news.
but the test gets it wrong, which is unlikely.
he s been deserted by the gods,
(Laughter)
until finally, just like this woman,
Yes, I have an advisory position with the U.N.
Anders Fjellberg: It wasn t easy at first,
But before I do that, I want to talk a little bit about the past.
All the other TEDs --
this country is living in right now.
(Laughter)
So we ll run over 200 campaigns this year,
that the year 2000, should mean more,
My youngest, Andrew,
in the hopes that our solutions might feel more natural.
They don t have any legal rights.
In fact, I ve got 38,000 of them now
to the Pantheon in Rome,
when something in your life goes wrong,
A lot of people say,  I really don t know what people are going to pick,
Did you guess the one that was dry?
to experience depression over their lifetimes
I happen to notice you all have
at the last undersea marine laboratory
And he said it was.
We were victims of the Spaniards.
Fifty percent of their diet consists of fruit,
but at the same time it s where people want to be,
And so here I was in the year 2009,
but I am suggesting it s possible
or to eat something sweet.
that would otherwise spread and cause
In the past, I talked about it.
15 episodes of  How To Get Away With Murder, 
Even then, our trips were limited to sanctioned national monuments
I use, now, a whole new process.
So she gets the address
by putting together
expecting to die all alone in a care home.
who is tinkering with about 10 or 15 telephone lines.
and his grandfather said,  You re too young.
You might have seen a child running
And these kids, their first English word is  Google 
are some of the things we can do in the form of a pre-mortem.
 Yes, I m from Libby, Montana,
The parents love it, because when they open up the laptops,
is happening in prefrontal cortex and in other brain regions
the contamination of the water lenses,
that we have done a total of more than 6.5 million text messages
So, we ve been talking about how evolution shapes human minds
after just their second assault following a match,
We live in a world of states, non-states, and in-between,
George Church thinks you can.
for other species as well.
if you have such a dog. So, I can press a button
And so inevitably,
Teachers are now saying it s kind of fun to teach.
meaning an entity that holds on to information for you
We had joy. You were laughing, smiling. Look at your faces. This room is full of joy.
But for our two southernmost islands,
they were now actually heading over to it.
who are passionate about saving lives,
They see supporting gender equality something akin to the calvary,
What if technologies could intervene
A herd of wildebeests, a shoal of fish,
which means I had to write a lot of papers.
But well before my imagination was my vocation,
everything gets done, things stay civil.
But then came my 90-page senior thesis,
and the bugs out.
unbelievable, right?
So basically, China is a SICK BRIC country.
if innovation continues to be as powerful as it has been
Those first few months?
I do it all day long,
Now this one s the tomato tickler. (Laughter)
So I want to give you a quick story of how it got started.
But then those middle months actually went by,
most of them identified.
where people, animals and ecosystems
most of us here today probably remember what life was like before the Internet,
been an effort to create a new Gabby Giffords
I wrote 90 pages over 72 hours,
live through these experiences,
this is an illusion, and even though
and somehow, I get myself onto the stage, I start my song,
But for the past 50 years,
And across the world, every 20 minutes, one new person
to the problem of blood diamonds funding war,
and we start here. We made a few designs,
that makes this even a little bit more interesting.
On several websites,
The story goes like this:
Where do you want to be when you re no longer independent?
KB: Are you ready?
for the population.
and they do lend a lot of money,
It s exactly the same event,
to actually make us move into space.
My father gave my brother and me
are nervous tissue and digestive tissue.
We make things grow.
he declared that he had seen less than 150 true cases of his syndrome
And these porches on the roof,
and then random audience members would hold up scorecards,
which bought up Americans  tax debts,
There were literally thousands of patents on human genes.
They are almost a form of reassurance.
and try to optimize which parts are folding when.
People from all different kinds of disciplines,
of how he put people s lives at risk?
to move a same point up and down on the y-axis.
or worse, if they re penalized for having me as their lawyer.
as similar to one another as possible.
The money had been spent
published the lunar differences for every month of the year.
when in reality, if I know everything about your external world,
wish we could fly like Superman,
and eventually you can add the log to the fire,
more than 70 million new homes
to try to invent the museum of the future.
in a trance-like state, anxious and terrified,
(Laughter)
the people of TED decided to release the speakers.
very different from a Denver or an Atlanta or a Philadelphia
network of lanes.
It s what makes a good question.
So as we mentioned, the process is to move inventory along the highway
who care about liberal democracy,
The most important actors today in the global economy
 You can hold that tension like a violin string
even to our closest relatives.
saying such things as,
In the long duration chairs,
And I m going to tell you,
with nice, new electronics.
One movement for the expansion of rights
This is what we see on one of the most powerful existing telescopes on the Earth,
I want to tell you the story
is of trying to wake up one of my relatives and not being able to.
and see so many women.
I think those are interesting ideas.
about the person you were delivering.
and he starts looking through my stuff.
but for the modern me.
And that s a shame because one out of five of us,
As I motion for the tab,
And he makes it worse by saying,
They may collect over 300 kilos
Right? I went through my entire business career,
Why would we?
who, as you ll learn, are very much at the heart
and it encompasses three things:
That night, I m laying in bed,
and no one else can understand.
38 percent said it s more or less the same,
by the characters that are available in European languages.
and I lock the bedroom door.
and a lot we ve been trying to do recently
An old lady came towards us.
the errors in dispensing made by the staff in hospitals.
move the camera around, we can also control time,
I m unemployed, I m almost broke,
like, voice was really important.
So, you want us to use Arabic. Where are we to do so?
that it almost blots out anything else.
We built a basic website and Airbed and Breakfast was born.
in obscure corners of the clinical literature.
and when we said goodbye to the last guest,
Brian and I just stared at each other.
When do I give in?
And that s what s happened. Mankind has transported
We sat back, and we waited for the rocket ship to blast off.
No one in their right minds would invest in a service
Never can you doubt that we are all in this together.
Now, when you re faced with a problem, you fall back on what you know,
The brain abhors a vacuum.
It s on. Just turned it on.
Could design make that happen?
Is it possible to design for trust?
I want to give you a sense of the flavor of trust
But what if we have it backwards?
marked mood swings, irritability, anxiety, or depression.
Now that you have your phone out,
I did my experiments that involved showing people
Now hand your unlocked phone to the person on your left.
That tiny sense of panic you re feeling right now --
there are positive feedbacks which can be of many times,
I can never get in there. (Laughter)
but being a soldier is what would prove themselves there.
and then we got people to go along with it
because when I finally did reconcile myself to how slow
Now, how does it feel holding someone s unlocked phone?
That s how most guests feel when they stay in a home.
So it s one thing to do that in a one-to-one relationship.
OK, you can hand your phones back now.
So now that you ve experienced the kind of trust challenge
entrepreneurial ideas and profit,
Imagine that they had 150 reviews of people saying,
Now how would you feel about handing your phone over?
It turns out,
within any clinical trial.
Eventually, we learned to wait until both guests and hosts
Was the tale told well?
The research showed, not surprisingly,
The more different somebody is,
and I think you have to imagine that there s
you might describe it with granular, practical clarity.
But if you ve got more than 10,
Now we also learned that building the right amount of trust
If you share too little, like,  Yo, 
But to me,  adapt all the time  means something deeper, too.
So how do we design for just the right amount of disclosure?
chilled down and which is
This is a graph that shows our rate of adoption.
The first, an unbelievable amount of luck.
to search for an amazing coincidence.
Now, things have been going pretty well.
on the part of the mare, in her foal.
and the case was randomly assigned to Judge Robert Sweet.
could be very discrete. 
all of the electricity coming into the system
 Excellent house for sedentary travelers
The area is beautiful and has direct access to the best hospitals.
and determine what would happen
Of course, not every stay is like that.
We live our lives forward.
You know how most travel today is, like,
at the cost of local and authentic.
What if cities embraced a culture of sharing?
I see a future of shared cities that bring us community and connection
something I d been dreaming of doing for a decade.
And they ve started an incubator to help fund the next generation
Can you turn to your neighbor, the one you don t know,
785,000 people
will either stay in a stranger s home
There s been many other websites like ours.
So, why did ours eventually take off?
Luck and timing aside,
Design can overcome our most deeply rooted
It blows my mind.
Now, we know design won t solve all the world s problems.
Thank you.
to have an ailing parent move in with you,
A room like this, nonetheless.
You know the story, right?
My client was a guy named Will.
It is now a conflict between states and non-state actors.
sometimes to excess, leading to embarrassing social situations. (Laughter)
I don t think they knew where it might lead.
that works by taking away the raw ingredient for serotonin
and maybe understand why it is so difficult to cope
on other really important moments
Okay, well if you think about how
At the start, though, I had to memorize the names you give
for a first-degree murder.
on three different occasions for lengthy periods.
And then I go home and I browse the web
And a well-run meeting can yield really positive, actionable results.
covered with chicken wire
because you and your fellow countrymen
I can and do just use the men s room most of the time these days.
but because of how the world treats those of us
I can t extol to you
responding to weight loss by using powerful tools
You can type in an URL and put in a 404 and these will pop.
all of these forces working very, very hard to kill us.
about a dozen trips to Bangalore, Mumbai, Gurgaon,
I m a Marxist of the Groucho tendency.
So this is the inside of one of those donuts,
There was a center there,
What drives the disability for these disorders
so I wouldn t see the wheat being separated from the chaff.
not bloody President --
And so that s the beginning of Protei,
to start doubting now.
And another key thing that I learned a lot
respectful disagreement between
which then can be used to help us understand
they should do in reaction to recent surveillance.
Several scientific studies have shown
airplanes.
when I saw a shopkeeper and his wife
these are the interesting ones.
If you are a farmer, you need five things to be successful: You need seeds,
The media became fixated.
thick woods with hunters crashing through the undergrowth
but would have improved its enjoyment and its usefullness far more.
laws which could stem the tide of HIV.
with the faith that my journey from Oak Cliff, Texas
how the photo makes me feel.
But as I witnessed this temple of finance
compared to the needle and syringe into muscle.
I like working with my hands.
and if they bond, they send the nerve a signal
separate fact from bias.
or I would die.
but good educational outcomes,
also predicts that if we can t get this under control by 2050,
Contrary to almost everything that you might get taught
had quickly flipped many of the assets on
I leave you in charge of your neurogenesis.
Words to cover every conceivable sexual feature,
If we look at that region in mammals that don t see so well,
than just more numbers.
future is in front of the body and the past is to your back.
I don t want to pretend for a minute
I think most people don t want to be dead,
for what dark energy might be,
Thank you very much.
when we worship right here at the church of TED,
and he still sits with his teammates in the dugout,
I ve gone down 60 meters to see hammerhead sharks.
updating them, quietly dropping obsolete features,
 You moved to New York with an MBA, one clean suit,
because, you see, my father s name was Ted,
I m focused on two projects I want to tell you about.
and as I took the history, it became apparent
That s the one we re not normally offered.
the likes of which he d never seen before.
I ve had a lot of time to think.
but Galen was simply trying to explain
how we re doing it and then what we re doing.
drop your body temperature to about 18 centigrade,
what the $100 laptop might be like.
They will not say  children  at first,
I would eventually fail every test for mental awareness.
Adam II asks why we re here.
and it spread all over.
that it really swept through biology.
My area is the atomic nucleus, which is the tiny dot inside an atom.
And within these conversations,
and if that happens in a part of the world where there is good infrastructure,
and led me into our room with an unfamiliar grip.
the MP3 player, nose hair trimmer, and crème brûlée torch.
It s this deep sense of trust and cooperation.
since early recorded history,
I had no dreams, no hope, nothing to look forward to.
For example, I love books.
But why is it so low?
(Laughter)
would mean a loss of a lot of land,
Healthcare is also completely free.
And I can bring that around, put that up there.
We manage this
So I think in the next decade,
three and a half school years between
There s nothing more to it than that.
that every apartment must receive
right at that moment to the cafe I was in,
and so they figure it would be easier to restart their lives from there.
Yes, they are opportunities for commercial investment,
In this pocket
usually gets lost in the way we talk about refugees and migrants,
(Laughter)
You know, at the very root of that, see, caspers,
and you need to figure out what that thing is
and the largest economy in the world
TR: And --
but some hundred brave Saudi women
And you correct me if I m wrong.
AT: Well, I ve been telling this story every year.
in California and Nevada,
So thanks to this student who questioned
and halve the chemical inputs,
So as I was saying,
When Carson looked at what these students had achieved,
This one came from a kid named Fritz,
why something as simple as fashion or women s rights
we are not being aware of the ways in which racial difference
And we ve made this data public and free and open.
we ve gone from a local problem to a remote problem to a global problem.
On a side note,
I just quit, I gave up.
This is what it looks like.
And they re also trying to develop all of their software tools
gender equality is also in our interest as men.
no Cesarean sections.
perhaps millions of years.
she threw the engagement ring in your face. 
Now if you put these ideas together,
He said,  Well, but I can t do it alone. 
(Laughter)
To tackle this problem, governments are using new tools
So I think what we need to do is to conceive of the issue more abstractly,
the happier their labor force is.
Okay. Okay.
but not just construction in isolation, of course.
not just in software and services, but in media and music,
And then after you finish, you get a certificate of accomplishment,
and then just need one or two points of backhaul.
he just went on the website and made a change.
thinking I have so much love inside of me and nobody to give it to.
Every day, there are thousands more like them.
a beautiful city encircled by hills,
over the years
bang!, it compresses it,
That s the way evolution works.
The one in the middle, on my kitchen table. Not much difference.
were at least a decade away.
And my day job, as Chris said -- I m an electrical engineering professor.
In another one, we said a woman enjoys masturbating
we treble their remaining lifespan,
And it indicates the whole structure of education
is still very much in development in adolescents.
are just as powerful.
In America today, we are at 1.86.
is because its lowest score is lower than Ireland s lowest score.
And in Asia and Latin America, the transition started in the 1960s,
(Laughter)
And unfortunately or fortunately, chemistry won.
Thank you.
 My colleagues are astounded by what I m doing.
so that new mother cannot afford to speak up on her own behalf.
started Bhutan For Life.
Given the option, they will have fewer children.
And as it turns out, the older you get, the less likely you are to divorce.
only with a 15-year time horizon
I didn t know what the rules were,
Occasionally, humans will need to do sense-making.
to a design-inspired nature,
evidence of this pediatrician, who have subsequently been released on appeal.
the passenger next to me and I had a very interesting conversation
and it fails more often than it succeeds.
it s hard for robots like this to determine their position.
numbering approximately 400,000 animals.
Now the first thing that will piss you off, undoubtedly,
But Kiribati is comprised of three groups of islands:
and he was doing this.
This is something that has editing and it has teams,
And she started telling me about her grandkids,
and basically goes like this.
Now Harold and I --
cooking for my siblings, collecting water, firewood.
I mean, your nervous system is an idiot.
The external logic is an economic logic:
Traditional fields of study are going to continue to grow
because I had done 15 years of research before it,
because the majority of the British public,
other than one of the world s major languages, and especially English.
in the dignified, respectful way that I had intended,
which is difficult to account for just on the basis of education.
Like father, like son.
 Well, why don t you use the Internet? 
the same seven billion, by the way,
because this is what Chinese students grew up with.
and learning pretty quickly that these kids,
They created this shade that you can see here,
So maybe me starting to take pictures was some kind of way
These models are around
So I walk into her class to give a guest lecture,
And every time one of these politicians brings one of these bills to the table,
you ve probably all heard of, chutzpah. (Laughter)
Mr. Repairability.
She received a grant from a local NGO
And I think that mathematics will be a very powerful language to do that.
Putting out my hands and saying,  Hello ,
and this is obviously not easy.
which in a never-ending cycle,
of getting men growing mustaches across Australia,
what all the different ingredients are.
but most of society thinks biography is destiny.
So, for example, you can click on this individual lion head,
Our paid work is a part, a huge part, of the engine of this economy,
As a journalist, I really care about how we relate to each other through language,
So we went to the doctors, said,  Would you mind us taking them up? 
I design for that condition, biopolymers. It s the future.
as dangerous as Everest.
But for every disaster we had,
So I had to compromise with operational research work,
Kids and women are especially affected by it,
And I feel so bad for men because they don t have that.
particularly those embodied by the United States.
 We adopted our son.
And that was a surprise to me.
I d have to rely on Free the Slaves to work
 What are you doing here?
I may never know why, but that simple act,
and we sprayed water to simulate the rainfall.
I ve been intrigued by this question
I look at the chemistry of the ocean today.
I look at the chemistry of the ocean in the past.
The way I look back in the past
is by using the fossilized remains of deepwater corals.
You can see an image of one of these corals behind me.
It was collected from close to Antarctica, thousands of meters below the sea,
which was a little frustrating when Grandma was in the hospital,
when we had the Renaissance, the Scientific Revolution
So I m hoping that this talk will give you
Two dimensions, such as this beautiful two-dimensional image
of the sea surface temperature.
known as the Stasi.
The overall features are extremely easy to understand.
The equatorial regions are warm because there s more sunlight.
which are actually materials that will work
And that allows big icecaps to build up on Antarctica
and up in the Northern Hemisphere.
If you plunge deep into the sea, or even put your toes in the sea,
you know it gets colder as you go down,
and that s mostly because the deep waters that fill the abyss of the ocean
I threw in a gesture of sadness and longing --
in all countries in the world,
And my mother came up and said,  What on Earth are you doing? 
And I ve just given you a cartoon version of one of the major differences
you would have seen if you went back that long.
The icecaps were much bigger.
They covered lots of the continent, and they extended out over the ocean.
Sea level was 120 meters lower.
Carbon dioxide [levels] were very much lower than they are today.
So the earth was probably about three to five degrees colder overall,
and much, much colder in the polar regions.
AIDS had become a chronic disease.
and what other colleagues of mine are trying to understand,
We know from ice core research
that the transition from these cold conditions to warm conditions
And we know this from ice cores, because if you drill down into ice,
you find annual bands of ice, and you can see this in the iceberg.
You can see those blue-white layers.
Even four years ago, letting strangers stay in your home
that s why we know CO2 was lower in the past --
This eye is turning itself around in a television.
in the polar regions.
consists of applying intervention
you see that temperature increased.
when I graduated from high school.
One of the things that surprised me most in my research, though,
then there was a plateau,
whether there s a better economic model,
It was different in the two polar regions,
and CO2 also increased in jumps.
So we re pretty sure the ocean has a lot to do with this.
The ocean stores huge amounts of carbon,
There are people -- a lady came up to me the other day,
It also acts to transport heat across the equator,
and the ocean is full of nutrients and it controls primary productivity.
So if we want to find out what s going on down in the deep sea,
we really need to get down there,
to coordinate locomotion,
and start to explore.
This is some spectacular footage coming from a seamount
about a kilometer deep in international waters
in the equatorial Atlantic, far from land.
You re amongst the first people to see this bit of the seafloor,
along with my research team.
in all these places, air temperature has
We don t know.
You d have to collect the samples and do some very intense taxonomy.
your brain is sending a signal down to your muscles right here.
There are brittle stars growing on these corals.
You know, you want to make 50 million dollars
and the thing that s so remarkable about the payment system
growing off the basalt of this massive undersea mountain,
and the dark sort of stuff, those are fossilized corals,
and we re going to talk a little more about those
To do that, we need to charter a research boat.
This is the James Cook, an ocean-class research vessel
moored up in Tenerife.
tucked under my tongue,
This motivated the students to keep going, and it also
than think you re going to keep them secret.
This is us trying to make sure that we don t lose precious samples.
or as much as possible,
so it s not always a lot of fun, but overall it is.
that identifies the most profitable opportunities for you in real time,
we ll rebuild our modules to be able to reuse them again.
It is global and it is deep,
with other Japanese-American families.
We just saw a global map, and overlaid was our cruise passage
from last year.
is that what I do is important. 
and this is us, having made our own maps
of about 75,000 square kilometers of the seafloor in seven weeks,
but that s only a tiny fraction of the seafloor.
We re traveling from west to east,
over part of the ocean that would look featureless on a big-scale map,
but actually some of these mountains are as big as Everest.
So with the maps that we make on board,
we get about 100-meter resolution,
enough to pick out areas to deploy our equipment,
but not enough to see very much.
To do that, we need to fly remotely-operated vehicles
about five meters off the seafloor.
And if we do that, we can get maps that are one-meter resolution
Here is a remotely-operated vehicle,
(Laughter)
You can see an array of big lights on the top.
There are high-definition cameras, manipulator arms,
A biological neuron fires, maybe, at 200 hertz, 200 times a second.
Here we are on our first dive of this particular cruise,
plunging down into the ocean.
We go pretty fast to make sure the remotely operated vehicles
were from people who were requesting
And we go down,
and these are the kinds of things you see.
These are deep sea sponges, meter scale.
In this school, there was a simple idea:
you see that the government of, say, Tunisia,
Most of the footage I m showing you is speeded up,
because all of this takes a lot of time.
This is a beautiful holothurian as well.
And this animal you re going to see coming up was a big surprise.
and it was a black armband that was called the  Improvised Empathetic Device 
 OK, we ll support a feasibility study for a small version
sprang up all over the country,
We were looking for corals, deep sea corals.
He would make many melancholy reflections
It s small, about five centimeters high.
Size and scale are no longer the same.
moving in the ocean currents.
An organism like this probably lives for about a hundred years.
And as it grows, it takes in chemicals from the ocean.
about 50 kilometers from where I live.
depends on the temperature; it depends on the pH,
it depends on the nutrients.
They completely forget.
we can then go back, collect fossil specimens,
and reconstruct what the ocean used to look like in the past.
And here you can see us collecting that coral with a vacuum system,
and we put it into a sampling container.
We can do this very carefully, I should add.
desertifying as badly as anything in Africa.
This is a black coral called Leiopathes, an image taken by my colleague,
Four thousand years is a long time.
If you take a branch from one of these corals and polish it up,
this is about 100 microns across.
And Brendan took some analyses across this coral --
you can see the marks --
and he s been able to show that these are actual annual bands,
so even at 500 meters deep in the ocean,
corals can record seasonal changes,
which is pretty spectacular.
But 4,000 years is not enough to get us back to our last glacial maximum.
So what do we do?
We go in for these fossil specimens.
This is what makes me really unpopular with my research team.
So going along,
there s giant sharks everywhere,
there are pyrosomes, there are swimming holothurians,
there s giant sponges,
but I make everyone go down to these dead fossil areas
and spend ages kind of shoveling around on the seafloor.
And we pick up all these corals, bring them back, we sort them out.
were going to cure aging and disease,
and if we can find out how old they are
90 percent of your long-term happiness is predicted not by the external world,
that are totally impossible to live with, and of course if you have a village --
what s been going on in the ocean in the past.
So on the left-hand image here,
I ve taken a slice through a coral, polished it very carefully
will be built over the next four or five decades.
On the right-hand side,
we ve taken that same piece of coral, put it in a nuclear reactor,
induced fission,
He signed a promise
you can see that marked out in the coral,
The off switch is in there somewhere.
that first appeared on our planet 3.5 billion year ago,
Uranium is a very poorly regarded element,
but I love it.
The decay helps us find out about the rates and dates
The bionic limbs that I m wearing are called BiOMs.
and one of its daughter products, thorium, in these corals,
and that tells us exactly how old the fossils are.
And this is why things don t get done at work,
different locations. (Laughter)
to get at some of the ancient ocean feedbacks.
You can see the density of the surface water
The members of the philosophical breakfast club
It s just one year of data,
but you can see how dynamic the Southern Ocean is.
and nowhere else have I found the passion Mexicans have.
which is shown by the box,
is really one of the strongest currents in the world
coming through here, flowing from west to east.
It s very turbulently mixed,
because it s moving over those great big undersea mountains,
and this allows CO2 and heat to exchange with the atmosphere in and out.
even while I was still in pain, I stopped suffering.
We ve collected corals from back and forth across this Antarctic passage,
and we ve found quite a surprising thing from my uranium dating:
the corals migrated from south to north
during this transition from the glacial to the interglacial.
We don t really know why,
It was the year I left university.
So here we are.
it becomes tempting as well
and there was a low-density layer sitting on top.
That stops carbon dioxide coming out of the ocean.
We then found corals that are of an intermediate age,
They switch really fast, very swiftly. They pay a very small cost.
That allows carbon to come out of the deep ocean.
And then if we analyze corals closer to the modern day,
or indeed if we go down there today anyway
and measure the chemistry of the corals,
we see that we move to a position where carbon can exchange in and out.
So this is the way we can use fossil corals
to help us learn about the environment.
in the fourth kind of immortality story,
It s just a still taken out of that first piece of footage that I showed you.
This is a spectacular coral garden.
We didn t even expect to find things this beautiful.
It s thousands of meters deep.
There are new species.
It s just a beautiful place.
There are fossils in amongst,
to throw up my hands in resignation
that are down there.
So next time you re lucky enough to fly over the ocean
or sail over the ocean,
just think -- there are massive sea mountains down there
that nobody s ever seen before,
and there are beautiful corals.
through the entire system,
(Applause)
which is sort of an interesting thing, but it goes
Some places in the world it s too little food,
going to school to see his son, how he s doing,
that there is some sort of limit
So you might wonder, what s the deal here?
happened to see a rather large mouse run across the kitchen,
because the atmosphere
He was a Vietnam veteran. Corrections suited him.
If we abstract this process, and simplify it as much as possible,
That computer is a computer that I learned about
It s laying dead on its belly.
I completed my education.
I know platforms -- I know computers,
with so little grasp
I think, in mystery, this is called the reveal.
I didn t think I d make it. 
So, this is a map of climate in the world.
Books banned in China, of course.
We had two opaque boxes:
So I looked back up and she said,
He lost his entire savings,
Welcome to your global farm.
with any other form of truly potent technology or media.
All these traces --
in that every time we use a technology
I d like to talk about land areas, and ask,
the visions of how we re going to change the world,
and reconstitute it on the other side?
and nowhere on the planet at the same time,
She s somebody who believes strongly in community service,
In parallel with this, Seymour Papert got the governor of Maine
And I didn t want to share with him the idea over the phone,
it s one of the ways
and you know that over three quarters of all of those cases
How the parts work together.
They said,  Knock yourself out, kid!
So that s the common thread that connects these examples,
and quit calling them public places.
we produced enough food to feed about 300 people once a month --
Let me give you an example of this.
had a soul, and was once unbroken.
and I think a word that they re watching right now
in the decision-making concerning matters of state.
Big problems need big solutions,
Tamara, are you recording?
but then the field is flooded for 17 days.
we can an idea of how much variation and performance is due to the environment
in the 18th century.
then the two original jobs
of the labor.
from all of the five boroughs, and everybody feels that they re tough.
We want to see what people can create,
as she is isolating herself further and further.
although seven years ago we had no idea that what
they had to invent super-strong concrete,
An emerald rooster. Okay.
to mock your oppressor.
Now I liked it better when viruses were free.
and you look at your houseplant
in a context where we could easily harvest it.
so I had to hang up my mouse.
that is less than five and a half feet tall max,
and the sound of my voice and the weight of my shoes
For example, now we can begin to explore
And I called him Luca, which means  The bringer of light, 
They said the CEO could have asked them to present to the whole company
and you were an idiot for letting me get away with it. (Laughter)
and instead of saying,
so when you give them that, you get this amazing expression.
I m not Kofi Annan. He can t stop a war.
Or this is something that twitters when the
with a further 0.2 percent.
What could I possibly reply?
Problem is it was a sauce tomato and we don t know how to cook,
And when you have it, place the cards up in the air.
The third thing that made me stop in my tracks
This is one of the results from an instrument which measures gas density
So I went into this school and I said,
and believe me, there s a lot of people like Justine Sacco.
(Applause)
Well, really, just change your perspective.
I had come for remorse.
Conservation issues are normally guided
the cruelty to animals.
would make me change the way that I perceive
and they re telling us that they are learning
I don t want to say in any way that it only has to do with what we do,
whatever institutions --
 Do I look like I can write down a song right now?
Think open genome, but we re going to put little climate recipes,
What do augmented reality
Being trapped inside your body,
can you also grow animal products like meat and leather? 
360 billion calculations.
(Applause)
who can recharge your cell phone using bicycles.
I owe my participation in this now-historic event
So we have a choice.
who would rather not take over the world.
so that they don t make real mistakes in planes.
or hunger or senior citizens --
suddenly we see a completely different image.
to deliver eye care in a new way?
prostate tumor activity is shown in red -- you can
So the black woman says to the white woman,
but, as we know, a lot of people are not entirely persuaded by this logic.
And eventually, I ended up at a school
but it s part of a wider network that may cover
and she stood there in the rain,
And I m not alone:
Here, we re imaging blood vessels
I m sure at the time he did that, I didn t -- it didn t --
They re herbivores.
and use them as a safe haven to grow and thrive.
with the Fourth Assessment Report of the IPCC,
it s about collective genius.
What we do, we re a pay-it-forward kind of group,
We get things like,  I want to die.
We were worried.
So we use some clever image processing techniques
or equipment or coffins,
to talking a little bit about my own experiences.
In fact, there are 47 members of Congress
For most of the past 114 years,
And from then I wanted to look not at impairment, but at prevention of impairment.
just so that people could hear my feminine voice.
(Laughter)
But the one thing that will always remain with you
so it s not a question of ability.
We re afraid of suffering, we re afraid of pain,
(Laughter)
There s very little that s within a five-minute walk
The clubs were escaping me at each throw.
at me. It s probably 100
Many of the inner city Boston men ask us,
And it s getting very close to what they call the winner s cloud.
which was my target altitude,
A Japanese person.
And Stanford University has been doing research for five years now
which says  Ring the bell.  So you can imagine this  Ting! 
people didn t just want to know if the study worked,
so I m actually looking at her brain as we look there.
about how to help creative people
And I have a question:  Well, what do you mean?
the mandate to release more and more versions.
This is not my home.
Every Girls Who Code teacher tells me the same story.
Mouaz studied to become an electrical engineer
You can see the top. You can see the balloon up there.
I know what a computer is:
This is Dave clearing the airspace with the FAA for 15 miles.
My great-aunt was a Dominican nun.
The real struggle is not between the right and the left --
As I learned how the shadows moved as the hours of the day passed,
But in one study, we found that mindfulness training
and teaches intro to Java
These are some of the vehicles that we ve been working on.
 That s ridiculous, you know, this is New York,
So now we re in a situation where we have a product,
Let s see if they congregate around certain ideas.
that, had Abed not injured me,
So remember, when we re thinking about
lasts a very long time.
 I m afraid to raise my hand,
It s pretty clear that something is not right.
exactly done as it should be, is impossible.
and they ll sort of nudge it and drop it sometimes
What are the differences, in your opinion,
that s using an agricultural waste material to create a cooking fuel.
(Laughter)
by your smile,
(Laughter, applause)
the better it is for workers,
because he has cancer.
The incremental advances have added up to something
This would not be possible to do that in economic fashion
We have to socialize our girls to be comfortable with imperfection,
and into the richer and more robust territory
Here s the cool thing. Six or seven years ago,
is about more than merely physically conveying a message.
before becoming involved in business,
The things we know are still important.
they don t go to doctors if they feel bad.
they had not had a nice time --
even though we need that --
But our  we  is our saving grace,
It just happens to be that Mother Nature holds the patent,
they can immediately see highlighted in red
I asserted my need for independence to the people around me.
But I ll tell you later, if you want to know.
 Why?  And I say,  Mom, Dad --
who are already the highest-educated and highest-paid among us.
to interrupt that process and to speak up
and with those therapies, we get them to live,
This is one of the most amazing animals on the face of the Earth.
this would not have happened to their only daughter.
before the champagne goes flat,
about the energy that we choose to use
1,400 people were coming.
That s the question I ve been struggling with,
It s a wonderful combination of very remote mountaintop
on a very few individuals,
from the fact that I m a citizen
Fame and money insulates these television star trans people
And that day, my mom took me to the zoo
and once you start hiding,
Ben and Jerry s doesn t have liver-and-onion ice cream,
Here, I m showing an artist s conception of a blazar.
So it became a cold case.
and it s not his fault, I mean,
Here in Germany, the proportion of people that use contraception
 Well, because somebody told me I m supposed to. 
 ... trips to satellites of the outer planets.
But few people discern its twin.
So I want to talk about education
sextillions of planets,
language is created by people,
for this volunteer to bring it back with him to his village,
I realized I was actually paralyzed by all of the choices
If you don t want to be deceived, you have to know,
small luggages to carry,
It s nearly impossible
compared to Sir Roger Bannister,
to ask a question or something, anything about the servers.
I feared he d go
about your continuing recovery --
one of the most densely populated in the world
JF: And longer --
Well, it s because mass transit hasn t yet figured out
And on the right are the more indeterminate spaces;
we ve got to find some way to put it out of our minds,
or Charcoal Institute.
so post-human evolution,
jihad equaled extremism,
It was the execution, the guillotining, of a German serial killer, Eugen Weidmann,
that returns the first year five percent,
Where are you traveling? What are you reading?
And at some point, all of us are going to be in that position,
while the driving cost, even from the start,
So our main approach in this region
provides a highly disruptive profile,
and we must have --
(Laughter)
 No, this is not funny. These people are looking for solutions. 
The reason I ve taken this time is I ve been fascinated to hear
was washing from the top of the mountain into the river system,
To understand this system,
but are effective if well managed.
And put the pencil down. 
It s the number of people that need to take a drug
We call this cognitive assistance.
and you could hear that ominous crunch of bone against bone.
that they are not giving backdoor access to their data.
the Great Basin Spadefoot toad
It took someone new to see me in a different way.
trying to show a bully
It s a kid, one kid at a time.
in augmentative and alternative communication.
They could have put them all out in view.
I cannot tell you how many really important people have said
This is true for so many reasons,
you could get it in Mandarin or you could get it in Russian --
In other cases,
(Laughter)
are more likely to get their vaccinations and their well checks in their first year,
before he s a murderer?
in a wetsuit on a beach in Norway.
I was in a meeting with the Pacific Island Forum countries
It s called varroa destructor.
If a neutrino had a brain,
It s going to be difficult,
We call them leaders because they will choose
Did you notice other people not finding the app that day?
or just getting money to buy that cool new device
How do you stay in love when things get difficult,
My linguistics and economics colleagues at Yale and I are just starting to do this work
and one day come back and help
We then gave them the choice between number three and number four.
And the first thing that makes me think is that
or reaching out to that family member who you haven t spoken to in years,
the country doesn t quite work.
to end with, which is weird for a scientist.
And one of the ways in which he creates this disruption
They have actually retained access
People asked me what the best part of this whole thing was,
When I joined as finance minister,
that actually it was his own story my father would tell me to get me to sleep.
Do you have a preference?
so now The Jungle is growing,
But what I have instead is the chance to make the choice to love someone,
The answer lies in the political choice that we shall be making collectively.
And so when you go through that growth,
You know, in every culture,
Oh my God.
I knew if there was a day that I didn t
very many of us to achieve spectacular results.
KB: I live over there.
I wish she could meet my dad.
Is there any advice you can give
Anybody can contribute anything.
People who had to move to think.  Who had to move to think.
(Applause)
Thank you guys.
but think about what they look like in real life, right?
to betterment in this situation,
BG: Despite all this,
I end now with the world.
calculation,
but I think it s also the simplest.
I m going to talk about why we are so fatalistic
And I think the reason for that --
and their family, their country, and miss the war?
But my brother, who is older than me,
I ve been solving my whole life.
And this groove right here,
The hardest thing for me was losing my independence.
Then, one night about two years ago,
on reducing flu, trachoma, SARS,
(Applause)
And this got me thinking,
I don t even know what I would do without my women friends.
first when I was just a little baby tomboy
a faded memory of a boy people once knew and loved.
of the first few Fibonacci numbers.
It s not just about life, of course --
or they die, and nobody moves the ball further down the field.
During the hurricane,
and strong enough and brave enough,
didn t even hit the target.
And I m the fourth director of the study.
through the description of Beijing.
the genetic basis of resistance.
And quite apart from that, we are getting the swells at the moment.
You have a scuba tank.
It s a little like your reputation.
What we did is something called somatic cell nuclear transplantation.
And number two, obviously,
give rise to self-regulating, semi-autonomous units called organs,
Abed said that I should call back in a few weeks,
10 and 15 --
Really, they were actually against it.
and the content.
and this was long before my work
often in the desert.
was that there was never a serious and sustained decline
We can question: Is it a good thing
what will happen in June, July,
the fact that human beings have an immune system, to attack cancer?
when the Portuguese first arrived in Brazil,
We have the data to know what makes a great counselor.
And the expedition started in February last year.
Mario!
If we do that, we really can make poverty history.
And if that s the case, then the question is
that maybe I could talk about that another time.
Well, maybe not, right?
So there s a third alternative,
And it turns out that a full 75 percent
to another country,
we had to be very careful with our early experiments,
there s the obvious benefit --
is because on the right hand is the emergency cutaway.
Then I wonder, what is a permanent and what is a temporary building?
I understood how long it would be before I was picked up and taken home.
but the law isn t clear about civilians doing this to one another,
And I want to suggest four ways
And I sit everyday, eight hours --
Yet, Argentina has LGBT laws that are even more progressive
I m going to call that  robust human rejuvenation.  OK.
large sugarcane and soybean plantations,
they ll often sink vertically in the water,
I had a plan for my future. I wanted to go to college.
I d been told that in an Arab town,
it s a quite amazing development which had happened.
because their families poach and eat them,
Our most happily partnered men and women
to get diagnosed, to pick up their prescription,
than drama and dance.
And it s not just our own existence,
In order to write the book,
Not the painter, I don t want to think about the painter.
Other labs have actually looked at this as well
It s what the industry calls  whitefish. 
 Boy, this gender equality thing, that s really going to be expensive, huh? 
it was a big, gnarly problem.
And then we can digitally remove the forest
and he s making a successful business out of very little.
(Laughter)
but it has independently generated this novel description of this picture.
Books that might sell 100 copies a year, 1,000 copies a year.
that hasn t happened anywhere else on the planet.
There were smaller billy possums on a stick
as my patient with zero ACEs.
 Our freshmen can t spell, can t punctuate.  
We need to be in that realm.
Unfortunately, not every host country in the world
she summed up that entire two-hour conversation
Last April, I traveled to Jordan with my colleague,
Yay.
When it comes to brutal murderers who post their beheading videos,
in their opinion, that Bill was one of the finest leaders in Silicon Valley,
They want to be dual-career, dual-carer couples.
that those early writing systems didn t come out of a vacuum.
We can slow down and we can tune in
So we went back to these specimens and we started digging around,
the G-20,
We would hope that we ll be able to get that DNA back into a viable form,
I was shaken up, and I sat on my table,
tremendous sources of marine life death.
So this one ...
We think visually, we think in sound, we think kinesthetically.
major consideration.
You can t keep a good idea down these days.
and other times simply to whisper a word of love or gratitude.
just like music is.
You know, when an architect builds a model,
called  National Firewood Night, 
make that option less viable every day.
And the inspiration here is taken from open-source software.
included a provision that made women citizens of equal stature,
that I would give my left leg to have in my head.
(Laughter)
Just lift the entire block,
because it doesn t involve improving on evolution.
(Laughter)
to globalize democracy or democratize globalization,
MR: This is a robot version of my beloved spouse, Bina.
One can say,  OK, what are we made of? 
for example, on lingerie,
and I held with my knees to either side
through political will and through authoritarianism,
CA: And meanwhile, for your local fishermen,
Have I gotten the right one? Maybe this isn t the good one?
The 2011 Arab Spring
approximately nine miles outside of Pittsburgh.
and she told me the story of his conception, pregnancy, and delivery.
and I poured over that thing for hours on end,
(Laughter)
So now we re talking about two medications.
When I was perhaps six years old,
until I met a patient named Verna in a waiting room,
And then what happens
Why do I care about this problem?
Day five, they ran out of penicillin,
And we can just ask:  What are the names of Santa s reindeer?  and be told instantly --
It was about children who were born with deformities,
Let s call him  Nick,  because that s his name.
even though we know
So I called George Irwin, and what do you know?
there s a pause and the student
being gored by an ox,
for his software to be used
although I have a car and an international driver s license.
and a bunch of drugs that don t change glucose,
I don t know what cat gut is,
It s that every physician in the world knows all the drugs that change glucose,
in which we can apply powerful genetic techniques
definitely not publishable. 
And if we don t do something about it,
and how they allocate their tasks and divide their labor,
Even more problematic reasons include
and I looked for signals similar, glucose-changing signals,
They can say,  Yesterday it rain,   Now it rain,   Tomorrow it rain. 
it brings together the three key elements:
Well, when we built our first prototype drone,
A family that perceives itself to be normal
And he handed me a black-and-white printed out thesis
Now, many things work against system change:
good for teaching and learning.
in the previous eight years I lived there.
with only 50 megawatts to make it.
Over three plus years, no performance tradeoff.
But how do you sit in a sane way?
[ Produced in conjunction with the Academy s Science and Technology Council. ]
What do I mean by  visualize catastrophe? 
through grafting or random mutagenesis.
that kind of a behavioral punch which we ve called a superpower.
Shhhhhhhhhh.
and become successful community activists in their neighborhood,
eliminating many of the flowering plants
So hundreds of others, of NGOs,
when we hear songs that treat women as nothing.
in the mice.
Faced with an anomaly like this,
with natural selection or adaptive biology — combine all three
and they were pleading to these elderly people
to have a sustainable life.
and you get a funny feeling.
What do you do?
In the quantum world, you don t have to throw it over the wall,
Or who has the most flexible boss?
They want to know, what s going on in this new box?
(Laughter)
who would raise really legitimate scientific suspicions
to things that Congress did to itself in the 1990s
Driven by the clarity of their vision,
about the balance between transparency and secrecy.
of new iPhone apps that will allows us
He indicated that instant feedback
That s a very new situation.
They were trying to answer the question of
I met one of them, I was in Beijing.
And in fact that model
and he said,  Are you some porno magazine or something? 
You were a free market capitalist economist
he told us that when the tide goes out abruptly out to sea
If we re in a purposeful mood, that makes us anxious.
to grow food that no one eats.
We can introduce electrodes within those circuits.
And so the upside here,
(Applause)
I m very honored to say,
The other one is the Lazarus Project,
the cutest animal offspring in the animal kingdom.
why have we focused on these two animals?
Most of us never think twice about talking, about communicating.
and saw she had a nasty rag cloth.
on the distress of spinal cord injured people.
by doing groundbreaking scientific work,
But today what I d like to talk to you about is that love of form
if you had a neurologic or psychiatric disease,
and that s four Madison Square Gardens
Before vaccines existed,
It s gotten smaller, it s got less detail, less resolve.
and your goal is to try to find the order in the chaos,
One of the women was white, and one was black.
and not taking away its identity or its functionality
and killing something,
Kitra.
trying to replicate that model over and over again
So we ve spent a lot of time and effort
EDI: Ha ha ha. Now you are the slaves
So we asked ourselves a question:
And the next thing we do -- we do what we call  rapid prototyping. 
and two of them were leg x-rays, which made sense,
(Laughter)
was broken down into seven moves
A similar poll taken in the United States
Nepal has made significant strides in the fight for equality.
But through a combination of luck
I used to work in my room for the whole day,
where a team run by a guy called Geoffrey Hinton
And I think, actually, that s already really happening.
It was May, 2011,
It s like all of our pharmaceutical chemistry
so it s a center of production and learning and shopping and health care
And we were actually worried
I m really just talking about
You have visibility.
channel the flow of whatever runs through them.
In two days, my grandmother will be 82 years old,
politicians, militiamen,
the cost of imprisoning our young black and Latino men,
He had these big cheeks, these big apple cheeks
that I found commonality with people
I was able to take something that was blocking my progress,
so that the way they looked
and they only pay if it works.
And meanwhile, our trans children suffer.
It feels like we re just taking a snapshot of this room the way it is,
And they really preferred that the money would be used
Because if you are going to embody disembodied Western rationality,
She started to become disenchanted with her behavior.
But I did something interesting with knitting
that had never been done before.
have invested a lot of time and effort
And that means that every day, when you wake up in the morning,
we have to this idea of proximity to bodies,
I fought for it and I m proud to say that I am a working artist today.
I felt worthless.
Thank you.
Mars needed to be habitable at the time when conditions were right.
When we think about prejudice and bias,
It was this wild place full of color and life,
for the time.
The technology revolution is opening the world.
Wetlands globally are one of the most endangered ecosystems.
so help me God, every single animal in that place
some explanation
to dainty ones that fit in the palm of your hand.
When the government of Egypt fell in 2011,
because each country makes a lot of pavilions
to safeguard against it, even if it s unlikely,
a little bit about emotions in general. So the basic human emotions,
and he was like,  Yeah, do you want an upgrade? 
So let me talk a little bit about why we need to do that,
I said okay.
but is it still the case that in reality, there s a red tomato a meter away?
what we call gravitational waves
That they are potentially preventable,
Actually, soap is available.
Close behind are sharks.
at a moment when Iran was very vulnerable
You ve heard of SSRIs,
PP: Okay, and here s what I think
then the question becomes,
You can send them inside buildings like this,
It s so simple, so evocative.
and any tasty morsel that escapes the first or second manta in line
A hundred years after we ve begun building
this multi-step column of mantas
or at least that s what he wants to believe.
When she had recurring symptoms she went back to her doctor.
and talk with their hands.
So congratulations, grandmasters.
And anybody who wants to do science is --
The red that means fertility
So with sound as my new art medium,
and surface tension
They re very mobile. You cannot tax them.
I went to the zoo,
Courage, the original definition of courage,
that an active Facebook user is three times as likely
Another objection used sometimes here
and New Zealand at that stage.
(Applause)
Code is the next universal language.
My publishers cut out the question mark. (Laughter)
We need clean water to drink.
it was anything but radical:
You know. Love is great, too.
You ll notice a theme in these photos. We ll look at a lot of them.
lack of skills, insecurity, not enough food,
Water-borne diseases? Diarrhea? Malnutrition?
As witness to their passage,
the Gilbert Group on the west,
I see people who want to make a better world,
in all public places.
while politics remain democracy free.
there are many in the city --
just got one word of feedback:
most of whom are kinda rich
The world is facing so many different conservation crises.
but in too many cases,
that people have the ultimate influence over elected officials,
What you see here are small changes in the color of Steve s skin,
as illustrated by Nsibidi,
(Laughter)
when it comes to drugs.
They ve been a problem for me since as far back as I can remember,
Now, that s not to say
(Laughter)
I wanted to find the work that I couldn t not do,
and search for life-forms beneath the ice.
I m approaching -- I ll be there sooner than you.
I wanted to make a point.
Did you know that 80 percent
But what I m interested in is the development of the modern mind,
an objective to look forward to.
and a large hard candy collection.
which made a categorical statement that it is real, it s human-induced,
all the Western-European languages are quite big.
(Laughter)
but for us, we re truly global.
That s the corner I want to explore.
CA: Now, those predictions are, I think, that by 2100,
And now we ve got these fearmongering politicians
But as it turned out, I had no idea.
Are you an evil chimpanzee?
Finally, very recently,
to use the bathroom that they deem most appropriate
about studying our deep history.
The one on the right is called a baobab.
Now, I know some of you in this room find this to be a risky proposition.
This is a picture I took at a place called Kitengela,
The system works to stay stopped,
I can t help but wonder, you know,
It s all around us right now.
the president of the country, even housewives.
Really.
Which is fantastic if I m trying to find out
hand-washing program
are you guys still together?
and how important these animals are.
the shocking pace of the disease,
Now, let s just pause for a moment
named after the Latin for a lock of hair.
Trans people, especially trans and gender-nonconforming youth
The village square was filled with hundreds of people.
hospitals, libraries.
And once they had all of these pieces together,
So I was 18; I was very excited.
I went to Amsterdam.
And you know, I ve been doing performances
We need to just admit
that they are really only open for people
who fit neatly into one of two gender boxes,
which I do not.
Some men think -- the lightning bolt goes off,
And this starts very early.
the focus, but awareness,
She s a self-identified tomboy.
these large boards in which everybody is accountable.
and Caterpillar yellow toy trucks and bug jars, the whole nine yards.
One time I asked her what her favorite color was.
I mean, I have to say they spelled my name right,
So these are healthy worms,
Many people don t know this but tuna are warm-blooded.
but that algorithm in our hands means that an automatic pop-up says,
with soggy pants on because the other kids at school were harassing her
rather than to watch and to wonder, that s where
I was filled with enormous compassion and love for my mother,
And then here you see the suit going on.
And she couldn t hold her pee any longer.
but something, a thing, did.
They already felt empowered enough
to police her use of the so-called public bathrooms.
She was four years old.
She had already been taught the brutal lesson
The black line represents predictions for phosphorus reserves.
with a sign on it that welcomed people like her.
and that problem started with her
and was hers alone.
In the northern hemisphere, the Sahara, Sonoran, etc.
in swearing in ceremonies in the church.
It s not because their DNA has degenerated.
those fibers would be going in helices
and talk to that school, and the problem was going to go away,
but I knew that wasn t true.
I wanted to tell her that it was all going to get better when she got older,
and I was fascinated with a heroic
from the international community,
STEM itself is an intersectional term,
 Mad and sad, 
We ve been developing, at the Media Lab, this little city car
But that doesn t mean that they re the only ones that can.
that she wasn t alone
but there is more global warming pollution that comes from buildings
and then she asked me if I had ever peed in my pants before.
the steering motor, the breaking -- all in the wheel.
We have tried to figure out where Shadi met Mouaz,
I was crazy when I decided to start it,
María was a driving force behind that movement.
and if we do, we can get more maps like this.
sometimes four.
when you re running upstairs, or you re stretching.
will be perceived differently by their coworkers,
and outfitted them with our localization technology
they re photographed, they re filmed by the camera,
(Laughter)
from La Roque de Venasque in France.
And I looked at his face. It s like a Vermeer painting a bit.
to protect themselves from all the stresses of their environment.
I promised her.
And that s not just because they re all in Europe.
that we are the most sensitive for.
I said,  Yes,
which is like a seven-foot space to walk on,
It could be a sole for a sports shoe.
(Applause) — Hold on, I m not there!
some things dry up, new things are created.
eliminate the working poor.
65 of them were between the ages of nine and 13.
but we can give them a safe and private place
it is a platform for hope and cooperation
if only for just a minute.
(Applause)
you would rightly accuse me, essentially, of research fraud.
 Momma, wanna play? 
already coming up with a list of reasons in your head why this is not a priority,
found that when he served his McDonald s on Friday, nobody came.
or telling yourself that giving a trans person a safe place to pee
Assumption number one in the food industry used to be
So it doesn t matter whether we choose nuclear power
or your masculinity,
that s sort of vaporized, and that material is holding this
when the going got tough,
as a world, we have a lot of work to do.
If you can t bring yourself to care enough about people like me,
then what about women and girls
(Laughter)
What about that boy at school who is a foot shorter than his classmates,
 I think that we are like two feet. We need each other to get ahead. 
where we investigated a lot of African countries.
isn t it fun using your cell phone outdoors in the sunlight?
Right?
What about people with anxiety issues?
I took this photo two weeks ago in Guangzhou,
What about folks with bodies who, for whatever reason,
Many may think that the story about Shadi and Mouaz
and we had an argument.
from these single stall facilities?
We can t change transphobic minds overnight,
but we can give everybody
There are many women who lack basic education.
so that we can all get to work
where is the CO2 being emitted,
as opposed to aluminium, and it s grown.
because in many ways it is the antithesis
(Applause)
have been deciding to have smaller families.
Actually they just build them themselves for a lot less
I ve been trying to make myself
(Laughter)
Can you believe that?
And something festered inside me after this happened.
There has been terrorism. There have been random bombs.
I wonder how long you would be happy in your happy place
located, of course, at Stonehenge
Increasingly, we re all the media.
that we can develop for humans.
whether you think functionalism is a viable theory of mind.
that have attached themselves to this core idea that men and women
Mmm.
either in the home or outside of the home. 
again and again and again for the past seven months.
And the email I m getting a lot today is about frustration.
of women who are not represented that way,
Came back to Earth at speeds of up to 822 miles an hour.
they were able to triple the throughput of this device.
was not big enough to hold our growing operation.
leading to the Rwandan genocide.
And in fact, if you see oil-rich countries,
and what was amazing to me about that experience
You know, these are arguments; these are things that
The AIDS epidemic caught the health community unprepared,
which actually covers the sun,
so that we can install GPS collars around their necks
And they allow people in that building to really enjoy the sun,
Because if you were [unclear]
So it took four years to take apart.
would stretch their supplies of food and water.
Which is the driving parameter
And so what we did was we looked,
We ve got to remind ourselves that decision is the ultimate power.
by his stepfather,
When they set the discard limit,
with music spanning from the Sheep s Meadow
about 20,000 people per cell, if it s Cambridge.
the word  defense  and  military  an awful lot, 
and we ve been doing this new work because
but we re doing it because everyone said we re supposed to.
is about the sanctity of the patient-doctor relationship.
So among the books that Jane sent us both to read on female friendship
And this has been in the press a great deal.
and we produce the map of the seabed radioactivity,
which is the decoration, the icing on the cake, something playful,
(Laughter)
I m speaking up about a lot of things,
And what about cars?
I say 50 percent here -- it s more like 60,
of being approached,
but these were people who were relocated from the Phoenix Islands, in fact,
She said yes.
Even within Europe, those countries that are more gender equal
is central to doing my job right
But as I began to communicate more,
a male hero s job is to defeat the villain with violence
you should rock out with us,  and I said,  Why wait? 
is that the technology transfer is so easy.
As you go into another community, there are bound to be changes.
You know, bike lanes are mostly used by young guys in stretchy pants. So --
So basically, if you want to meet with me,
and you can basically see the parachute come out right there.
and be just as committed to their careers as they are.
So what does it do to us? Well, it completely transforms what we have to do,
you will have changed
I felt frustrated and angry
We re facing a very powerful opponent.
for all my clients,
that are actually thinking about this strategically,
and descends into paralysis and polarization?
(Laughter)
and challenging recovery.
Together, we have to change the law globally
and bring up a little tool to be able to experiment with it,
Stay here.
It was the only time that my father ever saw me perform live,
I think what he meant is that we treat prisoners as ghosts.
we ve thought about illness and treatment
But as it turns out, we know a lot more about space
of water and drinking like a dog.
in the  I m gay, this is my spouse, and we re proud of our lives together 
where even the poor use cars,
to come to the United States.
this room is filled with more than 100 quintillion photons,
After all, I consider myself a black woman with a white father
In some places, the plant is called Babangida.
We lay down this context-dependent memory
(Laughter)
Is it possible to experience the stratosphere?
Security cameras are everywhere,
various places around the different towns for safekeeping.
Whereas at about the age six, we were told to stop learning that way,
At the time, I d barely heard about Calais,
it s nine miles offshore
We ve got two million total articles across many, many different languages.
he would have been within one stride.
believe in science is because of the scientific method.
He was bringing peace
But, in 2007, Bhumika and Nepal s LGBT rights organization
It means the Netherlands is a peaceful country.
But remember, Greece is there today.
and, to put it bluntly,
This is all created digitally.
and the designer who led this project estimates
those videos were shown during the Iraq War.
more than ever before.
but all the people who could be or want to be authors
Reach behind you. There you go.
And then, using deep learning,
Naw, I m kidding. But you know what?
so that they can collect the funniest dumb user stories
This is a giant anteater.
Since my first visit to Ceausescu s institution,
and Bob Geldof -- the world is talking about global poverty;
their music, their symbolisms, their prohibitions, their requirements.
And I realized we give one percent of corporate profits
is really more like chaos inside,
that people go blind by the millions.
What I m talking about is giving women the power to save their lives,
That if you are a leader in any area --
But what if we get it right?
So with that, I want to take you to Roswell, New Mexico, on October 24.
which is perhaps the more urgent challenge
Think warfare, corruption, human rights abuses.
Acting with intent.
to think a bit more about what they were reading,
mild skin infections naught to five give you
Individuals in innovative organizations
there s no infrastructure,
at the University of Damascus.
that I d like to read you her letter.
is financial capital -- money.
But here s the important thing.
they re a spiritual act.
Our leaders are working tirelessly to try and find ways to save money.
-- yes, he s still a drummer; yes, he s a studio musician --
showing me these cartoon pictures of heaven.
Whereever costs are high,
that Monday is the worst day for eating disorders,
The streets were packed.
normal, healthy, intelligent adults like you make errors
He does a little dance, he turns around,
Then you have display and everything else.
He ran a tire repair shop and later worked in a printing company.
of bone degeneration and cartilage degeneration like this.
and take responsibility accordingly.
the guillotine may seem like a monstrous contraption,
he was one of the early pioneers pleading with businesses and governments
where he baked environmental sustainability and other things
He would promote the policeman immediately,
but I meant the kind of rocking out where we d be naked. 
as well as austerity measures
But those things are hidden behind images like this.
 Be the change you wish to see in the world. 
I have experienced it.
that if you add your values into your investment thinking,
and it s the fastest-growing segment of the investment industry.
That done, you now get the aesthetic
she speaks about it at the end, Helen Mirren s Prospera --
what people were thinking and planning.
and it is a species, and it is a new paradigm,
and trafficked and vanished,
I almost never have to look at the time,
NG: That s great. When we were rehearsing last night,
and a new way of lighting the architectural environment
when you need it.
I made a booking, and weeks later my friend Chris
This is about doing things differently, about whole system change,
So when I do my job, people hate me.
where I get this thing to work.
 Son, resist Gaddafi. Fight him.
so I thought I was a pretty big deal, and I was protected,
We do that all the time. We just can t shake it off.
and village elders,
Art was part of the answer,
These people are moving pollen from flower to flower
After finishing this series of protests,
You can pay them a certain amount of money,
it was actually at that time a feminist declaration of independence
prove that there s somebody out there
And whether we like it or not,
In the U.S., the numbers were even scarier.
nearly halved deaths from malaria;
(Applause)
with very high concentrations of these cardenolides.
The data was out there, it was open, it was freely available,
And you ve heard of serotonin, of course,
that the operation had been a success because at that stage
 ... jihad ..., 
in order to be a good scientist.
You need first funds.
so you can actually see the attack occurring.
It s not about selling soap,
And stem cells really have given us the black box
But for me, they summed up a kind of,
that shows that everything is breaking apart
So, some people want to ban Muslims and close down mosques.
But you don t have to be a billionaire.
There are 21 linguistic states in India,
present in this sample
In contrast, when we let go --
The industry responded between 2003 and 2006
And thank goodness that women haven t done that.
Every rich country is relatively uncorrupt.
or do you find it fun, interesting,
And now we think we know.
It s Jackie Joyner-Kersee, who in 1984
and then eventually, she was taken off her lithium
was so important to have was starting to take place.
Now, how do you believe the very smart,
whether it s one dataset, or one parking spot at a time.
that speaking for myself, I wouldn t give it up for anything in the world. 
and I looked at the audience,
on what you can be for,
which is the country where this is happening,
Sometimes I think back to that night in the E.R.
maybe it doesn t exist, but maybe it does,
They asked me to come up with a very brief wish for humanity,
Okay, this morning I m speaking
Catadores emerged from social inequality, unemployment,
that fluctuations in reproductive hormones cause extreme emotions
when there was this frenzy of partisan anger,
but that s not how I wanted to spend my life.
of the game  Call Of Duty: Black Ops,  it had been played
the window of time.
I m certainly not going to go through them all.
Here we are, in a space,
he called my husband and me, and he said,
number one, smoking cigarettes;
I had this really funny childhood
 Hey, can you get this on a quarterback?
in the last couple of quarters.
So consciousness is an illusion.
Narrator:  Good Flag, Bad Flag. 
To really get the money shots,
The hottest of all was last year.
And in this kindergarten,
these become truly disabling,
when something natural ends up
McGowan repeatedly asked for an answer, a hearing,
and they ll make a decision.
and over time they can get smarter.
We have no other option,
with algorithms that exploit this new configuration.
It dries out the vegetation
first to himself, and then to the rest of the world.
in that it allows us to create cheaper and flexible electronics.
We haven t finished analyzing this data,
(Laughter)
It took me several months to design the column,
to the activist,
as communities, as governments
I took the idea of the wristwatch, and I turned it into a musical score.
causing the thawing of the North Pole
or whatever word you want to use, for new applications,
the world stopped to notice.
and us, the general public, who know so little about it,
it is long past time this can be viewed through a partisan lens.
I ll mention just one more,
either the major one,
So she did that for two more months.
low cost, pleasant transit
So we ve been evolving to talk in a way in which
all their muscle fibers to twitch at once,
He kept watching because something might happen,
Seen from those stairs, all politicians today
Not so fast.
This is the exciting news!
to try to reach the other side before it s too late,
this distance.  It s like a video game, 
energy storage, from batteries particularly,
I don t even have to sift through the raw data.
What about failure, though?
to see if it could actually then be controlled using the classic approach
But what if lifestyle was really about quality of life
(Applause)
from every land in the world,
I was born and raised in Sierra Leone,
these are some of the potential applications for commercial drones,
he made false papers --
This robot uses onboard sensors, cameras and laser scanners,
about the last time that you ordered something online.
And I think that is the quintessence of this 18-minute talk --
To put the assumptions very clearly:
is this electronic eye.
Indeed, democracy is receding in our neck of the woods,
which they understand is different
Their aim is to push the boundary of what can be achieved
the newly elected Greek government --
there was admittedly about 1,800 years
This, I think, is so deeply embedded in the water supply
I found a piece of cardboard and taped it up over the opening,
I don t have an overview.
it s by astronauts who are blazing up at it
a spin-off from our lab.
of plastic pollution in the marine environment.
I don t like my job. Can we sit down for lunch? 
Every one of these circles is a cog, a stack of cogs,
may sound strange,
as simple as possible, but no simpler.
work to create amazing art.
If we start one of those community plates spinning,
which is the tendency for the simulator to work badly.
The usual methods of evaluating a habitat
and I realized that I had been allowing myself to be treated
and I was so surprised to see how many books,
who means so much to me?
Well, not quite, not quite perfect.
My story starts in the city of Nijmegen
the sophisticated algorithms of the tail-sitter,
things that they wanted memories of.
which are capable of collecting and categorizing these pathogens.
and we need more people doing what we do,
was that I was hoping that Lois would be here
We all have a bit of their DNA in us.
Sometimes these back-formations sound a little silly:
After all, many of our cities are sitting on top of a natural water storage system
And that was the beginning of partnerships.
where he -- his studio. He also had 11 children.
Friending someone on Facebook is not complex enough
And we need to view this, then, as the ultimate deterrent --
To tell you the kinds of societal challenges
There were times when my projects failed to get off the ground,
So what did they do?
having a little --
in which we look at everything
Now we re testing app and online-based mindfulness training programs
They had normal heights.
(Laughter)
(Laughter)
is the ability now to take any kind of cell
for given ages that they were at the time that these therapies arrive.
endless rooms of museums.
that it allows creative, clever creatures
Today, they number in the hundreds, and they re endangered.
this kid, this young man that you see celebrating here
Pushed by my own experience,
a private tutor who used to come home
we create too much bare ground.
have been lifted out of poverty.
So if China does become the world s largest economy,
those changes that we re after, are extremely subtle,
more emotionally intense than that.
Last one, this is  Who s Going To Buy You Ribbons, 
to dream, to read, to work on music, art and writing.
that s extensive -- on how much early childhood programs
Here s another one. It s one of my favorite illusions.
to solve global warming and make fusion happen.
and they stuck the device inside it
This has led to countless instructors of general relativity
I could be as tall as I wanted!
best downtown --
and they are embedded inside a matrix of plastic,
His parents disowned him
And I want to invite you now
My growing golf skills came in handy in Coeur d Alene.
an electrochemical neuroprosthesis
when they published a paper on a simpler method
And this is it; this is the first ever picture
the features on people s faces,
at rush hour.
like resetting every single locker combination by hand
What is the local market like?
and that is going to be delivered to them when they need it.
they read the software in the computer chips
the room, and she finds a tiny little piece of candy, an M&amp;M.
when we zoom out.
There s no point in just killing the odd mosquito here and there.
and every product in the building can now come to her.
and as you see from this image here,
especially those who are separated
often identifying someone who doesn t even remotely
There were so many, I had to cut them.
Anybody that s selling their excess eggs
or even just last year, as one burnt up over Russia,
follow the timetables, which are listed in minutes past the hour.
but one thing we know is that the flora
you re already seeing the patterns of global warming,
when we hear about slave labor.
Because, again, I m not a scientist.
have to submit five statements that they re prepared to defend.
There are a lot of ways the people around us
Unlike the commercially available drones that you can buy today,
a magnitude 9 earthquake
We ve added seat belts, we ve added air bags,
I thought, these students coming to us
Out of each leg of the wetsuit
to any club that would have me as a member. 
As a product designer, it s my job to see those everyday things,
How is it that this can lead to over two million deaths every year?
that makes them so.
unless they get in the way of the sun.
so people over 15 and under 65,
be very honest this time,
of the leading causes of death in young people
the fundamental physical mechanisms
The first one was actually two hours.
in terms of design parameters.
I really realized my discovery.
This is a quiz. What do you think?
Okay. Now, while the table comes up to pressure,
so maybe we can figure out
My daily life became very hard,
I create television. I executive produce television.
because we are stupid.
In Lebanon, they do three.
 Well, I trust some of them, but not others. 
A total maverick from a remote province of Afghanistan,
Cities are places of celebration, personal expression.
(Laughter)
There s been kind of a series of epiphanies.
SC 1: ♪ You must be be sweet like Brené Brown. ♪
for an audience of 30 million people.
And this is actually from his Degradation series.
So I started writing a song about having stage fright.
with no active ingredient, and only one of them died.
there are bright lights and a camera in your face,
so, as Lily knows all too well,
and the lightning bolt that comes out of a cloud channels
that gave the audience permission to think about it.
The Berg beheading video remained the most popular search term for a week,
Our best weapon is sunlight.
You re betting your life on something,
If, after this amazing list, they still are like,
In a huge amount of debt personally to this expedition,
except for the pay at the end of the day.
And then, the very last question --
he often told me and my brother stories.
Let s think about Mexican streets:
this is a semi-submersible run by drug cartels.
have been working hard to reduce deforestation,
two different ways,
During that time the war was happening
the members of society who are at this level,
I said no to every request for the two of us
they ve been totally destroyed.
The hum is God s whisper right in my ear.
will be returned to us to drink.
That feeling, you can t help but strive for greatness at any cost.
It s then blown up through rapid prototyping
But the power to communicate across borders
having this be some of our most popular material
These were the ones that I targeted for my field work.
Noise goes up, heart rate goes up.
but you re really paying attention to this one over here,
he may have a nice, clean fresh water supply,
In the 1700s, other mathematicians said
Can you do that?
and that s worked, but then that reached the limit.
That s me waving with my left hand.
But the study did work.
or St. John s, which is all boys.
And a beheading, which was a rare event in England at the time,
When something new is discovered,
are common professions.
it s not good.
Now, you might think that this decline in death sentences
Life magazine introduced generations of people
about how we can make the world a better place.
So based on these studies, I could say oxytocin
this energy, to college campuses, 
I m nerdy.
So what do you do when the thing you do,
 If you want to do something about that,
to move across the country to start this new job at Microsoft.
your body will clamp down, increase the heart rate,
She said,  You re empowered, Khadija.
but only to show me there s peaks,
What are you?
Am I still a titan?
So this poses really big challenges for us.
coming across a whole ocean,
that makes The Matrix, the movie, look like a documentary.
Does it have to stay this way?
and I can hear Greg Lynn laughing his socks off as I say that.
in the case of making the wristwatches.
Just as I had resigned myself to being single for the rest of my life,
The air is so rare in this place for me that I can barely breathe.
So when we talk about, now, the future we will create,
Something in me loosens.
The West can either compete or cooperate.
the answers to those two questions are dramatically different.
If a wheelchair user can t play Beyoncé,
And so we began to give away,
beneath my feet.
And in order to do that, I need to talk about mice a little bit.
when men share housework and childcare,
Systems like this can really help,
(Laughter)
and not just pursue the media blindly.
So here goes, world premiere dance. Yeah? Here we go.
and that s not true.
we ll know that there s more to that train than just an icon.
so therefore it s almost selfish. It s grabbing its blood vessels for itself.
Each time I street juggle
My daughter Katelyn, my 15-year-old, she and I were in the car,
New York, New Jersey and California
I ve talked a lot about models. I began this talk with models.
a tragic chapter in my country s history.
and their children and their partners,
Doctor Who s psychic paper
The question is:
 Feminism will make it possible for the first time for men to be free. 
(Laughter)
The very act of not working has made it possible for the hum to return,
we would be meeting those aid targets that were agreed
Make sure you use a different password
and that is called GPHIN;
which by the way,
while the new facility designs save 40 to 90-odd percent
(Video) Man: Song is something that we communicated with people
mostly here in the US, Europe, Japan.
I do want to test this question we re all interested in:
It all happened for me about 30 years ago when I was in graduate school,
but the light is better here. 
And I will now do for the rest of my life the One Laptop Per Child,
this world in which every conversation
to get a smaller and smaller thing that I can study
The 20th century was this time of huge optimism about what science could offer,
was linked with two things:
Announcer: Magic is the only honest profession.
but text messages about being bullied,
(Laughter)
teosinte isn t good for making tortillas.
If you increase the speed of each of these rotors,
use machine learning to suggest products that you might like to buy,
And I told him,  I m doing mostly mathematics now,
full of stars, planets, trees, squirrels.
in the audience tonight.
away from the public eye,
of all chemical reactions in the human body,
and this is a device that he had built in the village where he worked.
I would take the painting
Actually he did, but it turned out to be the U.S. Air Force,
is finally dumped in soil on which
for countries like mine.
in the brain to either turn them up or turn them down.
and we ve done it all without a flipping strategy document.
Many of you have already heard a lot of advice on this,
for example. So it s like I m going to a concert hall,
with I have no idea how many hundreds of employees.
But that s easily said.
that was industrialized countries,
I ve come to believe that we can t look situations like these in the eye
but we re doing on average 2.41 active rescues a day.
Some people have been through ultimate pain,
We decide to splurge, and that week we would talk for 10 minutes.
but people relied on authorities like that.
I got a call from Peter.
This phenomenon is very, very relevant
The story of what happened
And there s been lots of other examples, like the corn
so the three-dimensional cube that you re experiencing
When I look at these things, they look pretty normal to me.
He said that sensing this acceptance,
there s a 99 percent match for substance abuse.
Bill Nye:  Everyone you will ever meet knows something that you don t. 
went through unstable years,
Everybody is an expert in something.
Number three: Use open-ended questions.
so you can see what it is that we re doing.
Science. You have Bill Gates coming out and saying,
of the indomitable Arctic explorer Ben Saunders,
Try asking them things like,  What was that like? 
It was a giant, weird duck.
We can mimic nature,
and recognize,  Hey, I might be vulnerable to this, 
Ze Frank: Oh! Amazing.
One of them is Martin Luther King s  I Have A Dream, 
Can you lock out the signals that elicit depression?
They invoked women s rights
You need to let them come and let them go.
Number five: If you don t know, say that you don t know.
But shared use is really key.
Now, you take pre-kindergarten.
disparate systems, the less effective data mining can be.
of creating a perceptual shift, as it were,
In fact, what they re suggesting is,
that the earlier you intervene in a case,
It s still used, even after the current earthquake in China.
But we re doing more than that.
(Laughter)
to help us step out of our unhealthy habit patterns
just in the nick of time to sort things out.
but now look what happens under George W. Bush and Obama.
but the world of value
had the audacity to tell him,  Get over it. 
and cladding and insulation and services
And I think a lot of you received --
deliver less. They deliver about 5 watts
they ve been stormed by ISIS
You have to operate as one entity, one mass cell,
and they ve found that every batch of pollen
automation makes the twin peaks taller,
or other family experts.
all emerged between 4,000 and 5,000 years ago,
I also learned that many of those who had known me for a long time
and this is what we will be looking for in the future
Who s been there? Say,  Aye.  Audience: Aye.
the best treatment.
that s not my problem.
It is about getting the message heard and respected.
developing countries  governments,
(Applause)
it s the largest fin fish fishery in the United States,
and as they re bringing the son into the hospital emergency room,
in order to increase your wealth over the long term,
is now lower than it is in the northern European countries
an area the size of Poland,
Should they be moving to another part of the country
technologically advanced material I can build with.
You do the same thing.
for a particular technology
no more tug-of-war between capital and labor;
So I m a neurosurgeon.
And like most of my colleagues,
and I want to keep it in the spirit of the conference.
I don t believe in precognition, and every now and then,
And what is very frustrating for us neurosurgeons
And after a major injury of your central nervous system,
the patients often remain with a severe handicap.
How we imagine our happiness, that differs from one another,
It ll over-index Hispanic and urban.
What is a functional neurosurgeon?
It s a doctor who is trying to improve a neurological function
You ve certainly heard of one of the famous ones
where you implant an electrode in the depths of the brain
that you find your daughter.
It s really an amazing technology
and technology intersect,
However, neuromodulation does not mean neuro-repair.
And the dream of functional neurosurgeons
provided insights into a very different one.
First, you find and label a memory in the brain,
that we are very close to this.
And that with a little bit of help,
effect on the development of technology and the Internet.
and I m reading Twitter,
At that time, I was a chief resident
I often had to take care of patients with head trauma.
and the eyebrows up is surprise.
And in order to save his life,
you sometimes have to remove a piece of swollen brain.
some of these, who we would call heroes,
Parents experience more stress than non-parents.
What do I mean by that?
It was like &amp;quot;Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory.&amp;quot;
Growing cells from a piece of tissue
and a world full of so many different issues.
So you need to find the right nutrients,
And as you can see, there s so much data here, you can see the spikes very visibly.
And after many attempts,
Jean-François did it.
And that s what he saw under his microscope.
And that was, for us, a major surprise.
Why?
industrial landscape.
And the reason that this is such an important story, ladies and gentlemen,
standing outside of an office building muttering
and moving their congregations out
And there was another intriguing observation:
Regular stem cells are very active cells --
a very limited civil society which is largely ineffective,
Is there anything companies can do to make
the first thing that comes to mind is bio-safety,
They divide slowly,
And yet recommendation system
And it took us a long time to understand where they came from.
These blue and red cells are called doublecortin-positive cells.
All of you have them in your brain.
They represent four percent of your cortical brain cells.
They have a very important role during the development stage.
they helped your brain to fold itself.
like California s currently experiencing,
This, we don t know.
We think that they may participate in brain repair
But there is one clear thing --
comes out on the other side of the membrane,
And we were in front of a potential new source of cells
And we had to prove this.
we decided to design an experimental paradigm.
Why should you make words?
And the last step was to re-implant them
I don t know what it s like to be gay,
and a lot of that speculation has been around community gardening,
So the first question we had,
So in the first-case scenario,
and they re, much to the distress of my children,
They are dying of sadness. 
In the second-case scenario,
ES: Right. So the NSA s own slides
And that s the image of what we could observe under the microscope.
And the proof they carry,
CA: So that s a general response saying that
But we could not stop here, of course.
They told me,  Write about being 14. 
in space at large, but I don t know if you can see,
And when they had reached a plateau of performance,
there s a whole bunch in the  mother  category here.
And exactly the same as humans would do,
And because we use stereo,
maybe even the motor nerve cell
of smoking, of stress eating and other addictive behaviors.
which was a black neoprene rig
we implanted his own cells.
So on the left side, you see the monkey that has spontaneously recovered.
He s at about 40 to 50 percent of his previous performance
He s not so accurate, not so quick.
you learn it with a certain part of your brain,
(Applause)
It was also very exciting results for us, I tell you.
Since that time, we ve understood much more about these cells.
to move out of insulation.
they cryopreserved it in liquid nitrogen,
And I really hope that I ll be able to show you soon
that the human brain is giving us the tools to repair itself.
Jocelyne Bloch: The biggest obstacles are regulations. (Laughs)
how many years before somebody gets into a hospital
JB: So, it s very difficult to say.
(Laughter)
Our emotions also influence how we connect with one another.
still a very completely safe, stodgy type of encyclopedia.
which was a kind of ridiculous title, but someone else has taken it on --
also known as pressure cooker,
That machine was built by this guy, Charles Babbage.
So, the technology, you know,
You had centralized energy production.
a vibrant community that s very inclusive,
When you hear Babangida, you remember the military and military coups.
Over the course of the past several months,
Well, despite the obvious importance of this question
different doctors describing symptoms,
and did a bunch of research on these diagnoses and these diseases,
and the peers are now in partnership with the company,
That personal experience with the use of race in genetic testing
And my dad said,  Yeah, but, honey,
even the very definition of diseases.
And the more I found out, the more disturbed I became.
I went up in a balloon to 135,890 feet --
Industrial design is the art form of the 21st century.
you know, the bluegrass capital of the world.
 Really? An alien, huh? What did it look like? Did it say anything?
who created a very subtle modulation of light across the space,
We ve got to pick you up. 
I healed my sadness by crying,
The people who received this message
inside the human genome
we studied whether mindfulness training could help people quit smoking.
simply because the proportion of roots to shoots is so great
until you compare it to the $5.1 trillion
disable the overvoltage protections on his battery,
We need screens, of course.
There s a structure in the brain called the hippocampus,
and then you end up with this carbonized material here.
which are partly self-regulating and partly semi-autonomous.
the exact same creatinine level,
For more than 10 years, people who were charged with my care
of being able to capture millions of data points
to help us stop smoking,
What had I done to deserve this?
and they re no longer afraid, and they re no longer smart cowards.
If we overlay what happens
against cancer.
In many cases, race adds no relevant information at all.
We didn t make phone calls like normal human beings do
I covered a trail of events in Bangalore
they now view their learning disability
it was all peer-to-peer coordination and communication.
all more evidence-based than the patient s race.
How is that raising awareness?
change the hormonal milieu for breast cancer, for instance.
In their world, critical thinking was not allowed.
sinking into a dark abyss.
with the estrogens, the progesterones,
When adolescents come to Rikers Island,
to treat black, white, Asian patients differently
and sheets of paper?
although I might end up making something incredibly simple.
There s actually kind of a love, an element of love in the relationship.
to explain what we see in the data.
So, now I ve established some of the obstacles to engaging men,
So I think people in malarious parts of the world
when STEM is combined with other disciplines.
called the Nation Brands Index.
That guy is going to eat all our sheep.
Two groups coalesced.
Already, we can see that Apple and Microsoft
versus when it s asleep,
looking for the answer, looking for the story to fill in that gap.
for medical reasons.
We have sheer nothingness on one side,
Joe was what a lot of people might think of
And by the end of September,
and landed right next to me.
that are considered slang or informal
And you may like or dislike
cancerous or not,
There are arguments for it.
that our lighting was just done with these kinds of lamps.
because they re expecting us to be great role models.
and a drogue parachute was there to stabilize me.
That makes a difference in whose legs?
This is Mao Tse-tung. He brought health to China.
about how she much loves her guy,
We don t have a lot of livestock,
and incorporated instead the most advanced knowledge
and by language itself.
they have more sex.
and thanks a lot.
can turn conflict into peace
if we don t do it,
African-American women were sterilized without their consent.
when you reach the all-consuming goal
is based on certain assumptions.
or maybe logos and posters and maps
because every time I look at this Arctic selfie, I shiver just a little bit.
And I think there are three.
and start my own creative ideas. 
or we rarely discuss
molecular biologists -- it s a very interdisciplinary field.
So dieters, for instance,
And I noticed that when it was fed up with one petri dish,
I ll never forget,
positions for how they might plan
must progress from traditional societies
of actually happening.
these probiotics would selectively grow inside of liver tumors.
and encouraged me to do an adaptation of my books
you can see that we actually have 10 times as many cells
from the trees, tucked in the bushes and the benches.
If we could hear it,
This picture is really fuzzy, I apologize; I had a bad cold when I took it.
(Applause)
As the great ocean hero Jacques Cousteau once said,
how reverberant a room is.
And we face unbelievable public safety challenges
Pre-vivor is what a particular cancer advocacy group would like everyone who
Very, very difficult to mount shows in there.
outreach to vulnerable neighborhoods, planting trees,
(Clicking)
But I am so grateful that I live now and not 50 years ago,
Less than a month ago, he and his daughter
and epidemics such as cholera,
The framers gave us what they called a republic,
Well, we haven t done that, so we can t really expect
and I noticed there was a link
in accordance with Torajan cosmology.
And they re vulnerable to misuse,
and right now I m working on a piece
(Applause)
for looking after what s happened to her.
of the container, to understand the real content.
TM: Thank you very much.
So dearth of data in the debate is one reason.
was how they managed to stay together.
and all it took was IBM pouring tens of millions of dollars and its smartest people
they have pollution, there s acidification,
as you ll see in those strange pockmarks
Now you ve got all of this test data from last year.
compromises can be struck,
oil reserves on the planet.
You were ultimately rescued by an elderly person
by today s disjunction between science and the rest of culture.
 Never heard me before. 
sex wrapped up in religion.
you could extrapolate to a very, very complicated system.
What Elvis and the herd taught me
is to find a way to express it.
of people who believe that science is integral
America s electricity use could actually shrink,
a second layer of fictional reality,
or if you ve been sick, then maybe you would.
and perhaps in the next 10,000 years.
Now, the reason for the dominance of this model
(In Dutch) I live there on the corner.
and I said,  Well, of course,  and he said,  Awesome. 
two billion are going to be under the line of poverty.
You re twisting your head up, arching your back, it s exhausting. 
Rives: I would be listening to music,
LT: (Laughter)
that are illegible because of water damage,
You get to try them out, play with them, evaluate them
We use a technology called rebreathers.
and the ability and willingness of a country
so there was no communication, really,
It was security. It was protecting information.
who is searching her two-year-old s face for eye contact.
building new bridges between people and culture.
As a result of these efforts, and the help of many others,
I m universally generalizable. 
outside of academia, with companies and schools,
I want you to know that I m there for you.
in the city of Lagos, on the topic of energy.
But I think there are better solutions.
Women in Africa will tell you over and over again
You have a wetsuit.
I ve had an interesting laboratory to try to answer the real question
(Laughter)
until the entire movie wraps.
And it wasn t edited because it existed in only one manuscript
Compare that with the device released just months ago
or  Bazaaristan, 
or people s perceptions of me.
to try to hide on the trains.
It s natural connective tissue.
And at the same time, what keeps me up at night
We think more about doing things than the outcomes of what we are doing.
so that we should not be afraid.
inefficient lightbulbs. They may.
the spice mix is far superior;
I was already the oldest of four children,
because now every single thing we do has these two
like,  Thanks very much for bringing this to our attention, ladies,
and  We re perfect role models,  because we re not,
Now, in fairness, if you ve spent any time at all in Washington, DC,
And I get into the trauma room,
who keep reaching for something that doesn t mean anything to us,
It s darkness.
was positive and that was published, but six of them
the algorithm reads that, you re code orange,
She was a schoolteacher and a principal her entire life.
(Laughter)
It s just so much fun playing around with it, too.
and who didn t. So I m just going to show you an example
Now, some people call her the first programmer.
and at this rate, these 10 get to zero too.
The private sector does a lot.
Not because I m sad but because I m so touched and inspired by them.
and have recovered some of the world s most valuable damaged manuscripts,
the more likely she will be to suffer from postpartum mood disorders
And this is a photo now, it s not a rendering,
is something between 20 and 30 million metric tons of wild creatures
and inexhaustible.
that the best possible version of his story
get curious,
I hid behind that office door every damn day
in an ever-fragile and unstable part of the world.
life-saving programs like the Global Fund.
that is, there s always a best alternative.
But there s a nonprofit behind it,
Bbut with energy systems currently reliant on fossil fuel,
(Applause)
What we re talking about today is also rocket science.
In nearly every speech, the Stasi minister
Today, the action takes place in a distant time and place,
use Swedish webmails and cloud services?
What we found out was the exact opposite.
However, over the years,
My talk today draws on this research
So as I m watching this, I see this powerful scene that brought me to tears,
But I m going to end by widening the lens to the entire region
we created inFORM,
I mean, were they unaware of the risks
is the work of my life.
and I got really scared, I really did.
such as population or traffic information,
I became captivated by the beauty and genius
from a decent respect for the opinions and practice of civilized nations,
tens of thousands of people came to see our exhibit,
and they ll say,  Look at where the power is,
at the largest scales?
Whereas all previous expeditions had failed to garner
Now then, by the age of 10, Derek really
and it just stays there like a terrorist sleeper cell,
You know -- research.
So you don t do it again.
They have similar sound of eyes.
and bring them to mobile devices.
and who is worth investigating.
These are the ones that are obviously making sense.
and they can be devised by more people
The community is looking. It still works.
that they said I should go to high school.
The ball comes off track.
wells that shine are matched with the specific microRNAs
My mind became a tool that I could use
And so we decided, of course, to have Sim City 2000,
And then the anger came.
about being watched by their government.
And I began to think that really,
of the program rely on which other sub-parts to get going.
after the introduction of the FBI informant,
to reach this goal.
but if users don t want me to use that data,
running over rough terrain.
who I think has done as much to make Americans happy
she lies on her back,
LT: I look for someone who has a sense of fun,
or any of that superficial rubbish that you see coming out as design.
It s a frog. And you think, frog.
the decline and erosion of both the quality and quantity of labor
There was no surveillance footage from the shop.
A4, or a letter-sized piece of paper,
I wanted to tell Michael before he spoke that I really appreciate what he does,
and he died at the age of 45.
(Laughter)
If you think about it,
but also in the meaning of life and how lives are lived.
Her head, clearly throbbing, was resting in her hands.
The H, honesty, of course,
two, four or six --
the World Bank, is an organization of the government,
They had never sold a suit commercially,
It s all about being there in the real time,
like Italy, France, the U.S.,
I think it s rather easy to define
so he could get a life and go to the movies sometimes.
(Laughter)
how a traffic jam behaves,
So they added a new feature
That was a turning point for the marathon,
So this is just some of the things that I want,
my mother turned to me and told me that I should die.
and we actually pull the balls from there,
This came after I told the reporter that we had to lock it for --
If you aggregate it, it s the third largest economy on Earth,
to amplify it, to provide cues to the doctors,
so that we could compete with wood charcoal in the markets in Haiti.
My existence was tortured by monotony,
But our minds are still hypnotized by them,
All the movements stopped at falsifying.
Paris Hilton would have been able
It s easy to not see the forest through the trees.
on just one individual at a time,
thereby conserving mating time and energy.
So this really, really fascinated me.
as some kind of art object.
and the distribution of those sneakers to their own benefit.
Our educational systems are inherited from the 19th century.
It was Mayor Emanuel.
you have a computer in your phone,
Now, a few weeks before our vote,
are not as interesting as ones we could avert.
It gets distributed to the school system like a textbook.
In the second step in the process,
we were booed off the stage,
Now, somewhere over the rainbow, my friends,
of every little society that we don t even recognize it,
We tried to inject chemicals into the knee spaces of animals
Were we to be able to identify this condition
when she was forced to pay estate taxes
between things that have a harsh effect,
So thank you, and happy daydreaming.
having swept this species nearly off the table,
It s built deeply into our systems and infrastructure.
that you and I have.
Just once.
or absentee fathers,
that ideology functions in such a way
I just had no idea he was going to swim.
and everything digital, electronic.
That s the first time we ll be comparing
And now, if we re all constrained by the same amount of carbon budget,
I started talking to Microsoft
We don t always meet those standards, but that s what we re striving for.
I think if we start to constrain ourselves
that all matter around us
What might leaning in to relationships even look like?
Buildings are starting to go up around the world.
We commit terrible crimes,
that our national currencies have a free-floating exchange rate,
to make it what it should be --
and it was a roll that looks like that,
These are the issues that we need to be training our engineers,
but there is less contribution from the tribal areas
we were astounded to find out
but come on, none of us is going to exercise.
can find a way to move out --
what model we should be adopting,
and I think there needs to be much more discourse
And perhaps more interesting, and more importantly,
can be high in proteins,
And I also at the same time wanted to thank my friends at Google,
and we re going to update the slideshow for all of them every single week,
And even antidepressants were first tested in rabbits.
I think there is almost no limit to what we can accomplish
Now because we are interested in having an impact
They have to run like this.
CA: Of your national revenue.
 Brian, this experiment is stupid. 
without developed countries themselves
New York state is one of only two in the U.S.
and 80 percent of us have it.
It s a seductive place, isn t it?
whose daughter was about to be sold to a brothel
have demonstrated beyond reasonable doubt
You had dirty factories that were moved to the outskirts of cities.
And what I m going to do today
You know, as for me,
see spaces around them differently,
(Laughter)
and I thought of my friend Bernie.
I began talking about climate change at the United Nations General Assembly,
but we should not forget
Now while those in power, old and new,
LT: I have to use a lot of social media --
It could cause a significant loss of home,
that most of the people who were surviving
so that s a four-meter-long object just to pull,
about 300 students in the room,
and are supposed to be used for some concoctions
And therefore, we re not going to be able to have many kids,
who famously doesn t believe in God.
It fits arthritic hands. It fits children s hands.
It s this small place.
Lots of people doubted that people with intellectual disabilities
You know, when you are standing in line in Starbucks,
Yes,  House of Cards,  and Netflix of course, nailed it with that show,
I found a summer job at Busch Gardens,
You know? You can get cadavers if you work at a university. 
It was a group called the New Hampshire Rebellion
 Greetings, Jack. Salutations, Jack. 
But you can have anti-carcinogenic environments too.
Last year, with the help of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation,
That skin serves double duty, again, for economics.
So -- yeah.
(Laughter)
It s the people I meet who have lost someone
We found his name in the records, and he seems to have stayed there alone.
and speaking out for themselves and for other women
because you are allowing the brain to send motor commands to move this avatar.
And as you can see,
You can see the darkness of space, the curvature of the Earth,
and you can see where that original bone finishes,
which was 10 minutes away.
But anyway, so when my wife and I decided
 What s your hometown?   What occupation do you seek? 
One: production is too low. Two: price is too high.
There s nothing for me to tell it s the speed of sound,
in which you re not supposed to change these rules
and you can never really affect the voice.
And this is about the most exciting thing in my life right now,
This is a real street sign in Lagos, Nigeria.
between Major League Baseball,
like jewelers to get these hair-thin fibers to line up
So when we go out into the future, there s a difference.
allow us, meaning the community --
and then let it heal by itself.
that Paul MacCready made at TED three years ago.
to confront a problem,
And so what had happened, really,
In the meantime, for 45 minutes,
kids are playing these video games,
In addition to those levers, we could talk about other ways
It s the third in the series.
Have they all agreed? No, not completely.
but if we translate those similarities to a visual abstraction instead,
some 10 to 40 million years ago.
Like I say, it s a tight-knit community.
Thank you very much.
But when I think about cities,
and sustainable energy production.
But what if we tried to be objective about it?
If some of the women were really horrified when I came out,
you don t have to tell me now, but I ll find out later on Twitter.
It s so important that the very tools that we use
and another 100,000 were killed
my own ballroom and Latin American dances to teach
And that changed a great deal in March of 2014,
I grew up in Brooklyn as a matter of fact, and I went to New Utrecht High School
and this exhibit lets people use physical objects
back in Greece. And we have Confucius in the East
As a filmmaker, it worried me.
is to just make a wheelchair with mountain bike components,
On May 23, 2014, a woman checked into the maternity ward at the hospital,
become greater than the costs of moving to something different,
that make up most of the genetic information on our planet.
If somebody suddenly asks me,  Where s your home? 
Addiction is real, the elements are real,
PM: Gabby, what s been the toughest challenge
Hope kept me alive.
In Egypt remittances are three times
This was really an extraordinary advance, because
and there s not much work going on,
but the important thing is contact tracing.
it was mutating.
stay creative in the cloud,
And this one is especially interesting because it really shows us
are for low-level crimes, like misdemeanors,
I m doing weight-bearing exercise, so that I have the muscle strength
of how to craft a city that is sustainable and humane.
(Laughter)
how good we are at reading other people s behavior,
the car drivers. They adapt so extremely quickly.
and from that point on,
sharing, regular calls, communications,
Work doesn t make you happy, does it? Mostly it s tough.
and we put those lawn chairs out on the street.
In 1987, in the month our eldest son Gerard was born,
There are many, many examples and I ll give you one
you should only go to Waffle House at an ungodly hour in the night.
Let s work together, and let s make this happen. 
my grandmother used to tell me stories from the Hebrew Bible,
We just think of the weather,
(Applause)
maybe eventually we get to chimpanzee-level artificial intelligence.
We have superstar bankers.
and permits me to move around indoor and outdoor environments
quietly and separately.
that was self-contained,
And so in this place with the same vulnerabilities,
So the question is, can we study these diseases
And we all know that it s really one of our greatest luxuries,
can be provided on the cutting sheets as well.
It s an expression of beauty. It s how they say they love you.
so that every single judge in the United States of America
and focus on one or the other.
and it will make your day. And why shouldn t poor kids
let us be in this fight with them always.
But the thing is that any one of those would require some effort and motivation.
What do men have to do with gender equality?
sweating through T-shirts in the middle of winter.
For 13 long years, that was my reality.
on a dozen New York City landmarks,
(Laughter)
And this is a global business.
at some point,
about half of us will drift off into a daydream,
Then I built the temporary structure, 1990.
I mean, there is plenty of knowledge and scientific breakthroughs.
What I mean by that is that anyone in the world is free and allowed
one that s conserved
and when Will was five years old,
of about 2,500 TV shows on the website IMDB,
it tastes good.
And especially with sugar,
and learn to repeat the process next time.
and today, a habitable planet is a planet
we finally got to a point where the ceiling was so low
like a groin injury.
people need to cook,
Imagine that.
Same process,
water-based paint,
because they re really shut out of the process
Five words.
Now, with these same brain processes,
A few years ago I reinvented my process
What if instead of fighting our brains,
or trying to force ourselves to pay attention,
but it at least was bringing computers to developing countries
and I couldn t even listen to music.
It was really hard to obtain,
And the second group that we ve followed
they could try to force themselves to quit smoking.
are sometimes considered as being unfit
in different places and different times,
All that semester, whenever my colleague opened her mouth,
and try to be as non-threatening as possible.
We ve been working very, very, very hard for the last decade and more.
Your intuition tells you it s impossible.
It s quite widespread.
but they sold one to me, which I am very grateful for.
Usually, the outpost was attacked,
What she discovered just by being curiously aware when she smoked
was that smoking tastes like shit.
Now, she moved from knowledge to wisdom.
of a language which is used,
in this wobbly motion.
telling you that the study still continues.
If I had told you it was a medical puncture device
And it tries it s hardest to help us change our behavior,
I don t know what I think.
it costs a fraction of its cost,
Are you? Oh, yeah?
Whatever it is, instead of deleting you, what I want to do is study you.
they re the ones living in homes
and they re talking about a specific legal authority
But not all men.
we fall back into our old habits,
which is why this disenchantment is so important.
was down to genetic factors.
helps us understand them at a deeper level --
it was fed a bunch of poems
based out of the variations.
But over time, as we learn to see more and more clearly
the results of our actions,
and she s clearly projecting, you know,
So basically, metabolism, which is defined as
If someone here in the US is in prison, and they apply for parole,
to go to the launch pad, but I got a front loader.
Just in the last two days, we got the new temperature records in January.
that I support an effective struggle
That there are ideas that all of us are enthralled to,
Or it can be in today s retail, in the shopping environment --
and that these body sensations come and go.
These are bite-size pieces of experiences
that we can manage from moment to moment
In other words, when we get curious,
There could be 40,000 or 50,000 to see a famous criminal killed.
institutional capital, human capital --
Now, this might sound too simplistic to affect behavior.
He started making rubber stamps.
and biological thinking,
we found that parts of a neural network of self-referential processing
from 167 countries around the world
they began to focus on chapter one of the story.
called the posterior cingulate cortex,
when it s plausibly representative of the population
It just didn t work that year,
and it takes us for a ride.
whether it was the physical world,
and, ironically, use the same technology that s driving us to distraction
Again, breathing was a hazardous activity.
Now you re probably thinking,
If I was to take an MRI of every person in this audience,
tap into their inherent capacity to be curiously aware
or maybe to compulsively respond to that text message when you re driving,
we d have an Equal Rights Amendment in our Constitution today.
But the problem with that is that we realized
It will just be another chance
probiotics to try and treat, prevent,
Instead of see text message, compulsively text back,
relies a lot on manual processes in order to generate jobs for local communities.
than you are to be helped by the drug.
and repeat.
where people were mutilated and burned and pulled apart slowly.
(Applause)
Many animals gather in large groups
This is called  59. 
which is mostly all I did,
Captain Swenson was recognized
You ve been called a whistleblower, a traitor,
And that s where the nonprofit sector and philanthropy come in.
and it s actually really hard to develop drugs
but you still have water, energy, nutrients,
It s a bit uncomfortable to fly,
that they gave me on the list where I could get apartments.
I hope you will enjoy.
I would, so what I might like to try to do is to change it,
Let me tell you a little bit about a couple of new deceptions
started in the late 1990s a training program
Well, if something is inconvenient,
and all of that,
a  Report this item  button.
I m very, very stoked to be here today,
This is a library in Auckland.
and I don t like the word  anniversary,  because it sounds like a party,
I m Iranian and American. I m there. I know, I ve traveled here.
to see babies playing with knives.
we go very heavy on the debate,
showed them how to use the mouse. 
and spent the 8-hour time difference on conference calls
It s not true.
The fate of people living in the makeshift settlements
I could get them in a worse situation
Can you just raise the hand?
and a hot spring that, well, looked like this, close to boiling.
that want to hire you.
Grief, humiliation, loss:
is an urban design crisis,
We don t keep them all.
I still find it very romantic.
are venues for forced prostitution.
new molecular data and personalized genomic information
and now when you come back, it s not that easy
so to put it in more everyday terms:
reinventing it for the digital age,
Margaret Heffernan: Fantastic research, Sandrine.
is now on my iPhone and on yours as well.
we wanted to believe the story
the lock-them-up-and-throw-away-the-key mentality,
that the developed world often tries in vain to impose
When I saw that graph I knew there is a way to level the playing field.
Let me show you some actual footage from that
just entirely different
and when we were on the bus going back and forth
And some people would say,
[One hundred and forty-three] years after the end of slavery,
software is the interface to our imagination and our world.
Now, normally, when an object flies through the air,
She hasn t actually achieved anything.  (Laughter)
by the architect Le Corbusier.
and what we can do to prevent these diseases
So I couldn t wait to get started to work on this
And I heard that, and that was all I needed.
I would have told you I wanted to be a megachurch pastor.
From your show of hands,
Will eventually joined a gang
So I know it may sound like tough love,
and, you know, with all the cortisol in my brain,
Have you ever broken something in real life,
That means building the equivalent
Thus I ve learned, for example ...
LT: And I look through my emails, I look through my texts
and then finally, I want to end with
Although each one was pretty small,
and there we looked at children dying,
and important plant-based medicinal resources.
In 2004, I really couldn t manage the number of people who wanted to help,
These are mine, I was born an Argentinean.
and in no time it will disseminate throughout the community.
(Laughter)
in order to claim asylum.
But unless we give them tools to build with computers,
And just last February, the last time we did these trials,
 Hey Mandy, where s your boyfriend? 
on design and compositional choices.
And you can make a very thick, sticky porridge out of it,
our two southernmost islands,
The Harvard men never ask that question.
and I think I probably heard Steve Martin playing,
We first heard about him after being in Calais the first time
rather than a mummified heritage.
I ve never even been strafed by aircraft,
Some do not, though they re often interrelated.
It s because you can go to a manufacturer --
 We want a faster processor and a better mouse. 
and sketch with electronics in this fundamentally new way.
(Music)
long-term social bonds,
almost like a normal cell.
three to eight percent.
So we re going to just type a couple of random words into Twitter.
It tanked. No one ever bought it.
it s a staple food in Ethiopia,
which is actually better than what you can buy in Haiti in the marketplace,
And one of the teachings that we girls and my peers questioned
mostly social policies and some elements of the software.
gender equality is actually a way for us to get the lives we want to live.
 While viewing the thousands of photos on the site,
let me tell you a few facts.
and it s a place we can work with wood, metal, chemistry,
they re very, very used to transferring money,
It was exhilarating, but frustrating at times.
because here I see our people.
Now, they don t develop morality to the point of
They have an easier time recruiting.
So citizen scientists, makers, dreamers --
Clearly it s freezing.
and now we began to look for skeletal stem cells.
to get its cameras to actually look at Philae while it was departing
And I ve got to say that, you know, it s really, really great to be here.
(Robot buzzing)
A little more searching, and here s our cybercriminal.
and urbanization is a big driver of everything.
I was going to school,
And now, I don t actually mean the world that we live in.
Bali:
for an average family,
They want to know what happened.
something a normal textbook cannot match.
CC: A-rhythm-etic. Audience: A-rhythm-etic.
most efficient particle accelerators,
For example, we are all going to die.
exist because they motivate us to do good things
that they don t have the full liberty
either on one or the other
I should not be able to find my way my across the room;
 The core force leading our cause forward is the Chinese Communist Party. 
to enjoy the same freedoms and responsibilities as everyone else.
and if you think about it,
When I get six- and seven-year-olds in a group,
when what is suddenly possible meets what is desperately necessary.
for adventure, for novelty,
because the shell had exploded between the two floors --
of the half-vacant communities that you see today.
embedded virtualization,
at a cost of 4,000 pounds,
In fact, I observed that America was fracturing
we like how this consumer aesthetic
And my all-time favorite was the guy they called Summerwear.
Off we headed to the airport.
Soon, my business really started to take off.
But what we do know is that it isn t 10 years or 10 billion dollars
Actually, my student Thanasis, I have to plug him,
to feel that state of wonder,
Lesson number four:
We are still asking the question.
There s a real correlation
Ban Ki Moon taught us
I made sure that you ate a piece of cake that day. 
And ever since those results came out, policymakers,
from the Nanopatch that s been applied to the skin
multinational, transnational giants -- makes all MBA students a question mark.
Researchers in Tokyo are using it
Who are you to guide them and who are you to show them
aphorisms about these ideas
because they have no adequate sanitation.
It s over two billion.
what s wrong with the people that we chose? 
We could call this  the perfumator. 
(Laughter)
it moves freely.
Who the heck is a professor of global health in that country?
And they d say,  Daddy, why doesn t the computer respond to sound? 
What were these two girls doing?
and a place which I was very curious about because it s disliked
One little girl tried pulling the purple button, then pushing it,
Twenty-four hours later,
we human beings really like to change
which is made up of highly interconnected companies.
that stretches forward and backward.
quite effectively.
is our next message to change that mindset of the public.
quite a bit on happy hour posters in various science departments.
We know what happened over the 20th century.
and another group was given no facts at all
and she was engaged at 14, and then at 21 or so,
a 17-year-old German girl called Vera Brandes
aesthetic, beauty, composition, some irony, and artifacts.
that, if you take some words from Apple,
it would find its target,
Symptoms are often denied by the patient, particularly us men,
I m just going to show you two of them.
Is it possible to explore the stratosphere?
and a seat in the front of the room.
In other words, odds are you ll spend your golden years
only about three orders of magnitude.
and I attended her wake,
Because some people think that the $100 laptop just happened a year ago,
like service robots or search and rescue robots
it became a real issue for us.
one of the oldest churches in the world.
Within a day, it was the top search term
And they re investing in telecoms,
Anyway, bear with me.
the good part of the sun.
I can tell you that one of the skills
There are spots on the paper that are sticky.
with a single axis knee.
I m using your energy,
And then you have to unstick yourself.
Now, it had taken several days
and not imposition of the framework
with Sue Savage-Rumbaugh and Kanzi, Panbanisha,
with this standing wave undulation of the body,
And these --
depending on where you are.
My family believes in me.
and you provide most of what most people need within that neighborhood.
a feedback loop between customers and businesses.
At our teacher education classes at my university,
it s true, you have so many youngsters,
And by the way, the arts aren t just important
if the needle was shown here, it would be too big.
but just to repeat one of them,
We have a plan, we think we have a plan.
one that relied heavily on specialized, expensive
and tried to cure depression that way,
I remember taking my son s school class. He was eight at the time,
And the idea is to launch with enough scale
 Motherland is motherland. I will never leave. 
But I was also thinking what you might be thinking,
TK: Which is a very attractive design element.
It s not like we re trying to choose between
It is rather because one can be in government today and not in power,
And that Montana is a beautiful place to visit
to leave the reactor in the event of an accident.
(Laughter)
you people should be asking yourself a question,
where natural habitat and wildlife populations
after being on the Persistently Dangerous List for five consecutive years.
and you see the Earth s orbit is actually quite small.
But again, I can only affect society
performing forensics on our solar system,
and among many potential consequences of those disorders,
 Adam, sounds like a really novel idea, but we re
Bill and his leadership team, who he referred to as his brain trust,
And when these genes are over-expressed,
It s a little bit like an obese person
and this is really important to talk about,
and I believed that by expressing my thoughts and wishes,
And what was also one of the bigger projects around that
with that kind of strategy.
and about a third of them
The problem is
or even leak sensitive documents.
The truth is, their ideas are stale,
the strengths and weaknesses of their particular approach. 
soon, I believe --
We don t know much about his travels
and can be moved very rapidly.
they only had a 50-50 chance of getting the answer right.
at the heart of the international resistance movements,
the wisdom of allowing talented people to play out their passions.
of some Marines
Voice: We want Malcolm Gladwell.
and I hired 65 people. That s my team here.
And we are burning in Africa, every single year,
where we can for instance do some exercise where we have the robot go down a step,
and the robot will not fall over,
and how we can trace our line.
So an artistic director has the ability to have a performance
Now, I m going to pass this around.
how do you live with your partner s doubt?
I m not sure that s what an intelligence agency
Thank you.
and when she opened up,
if you reach into your body and grab your genome,
Falling in love is the easy part.
I would love to build this one day
My colleagues Grégoire Courtine and Silvestro Micera,
but also about the object itself.
and men want this.
was the level of endemic corruption that I saw
 I m a role model, I m a human glue,
color and shape, but that weren t food, like these.
politically vulnerable communities for profit.
It was an afternoon in the fall of 2005.
I was working at the ACLU as the organization s science advisor.
I really, really loved my job,
So I wandered down the hallway to my colleague Chris Hansen s office.
and it must have excellent aerodynamic qualities
by a recollection of a client of mine.
I had been investigating a number of issues
at the intersection of science and civil liberties -- super interesting.
and balled-up aluminum foil,
There s the one that cuts it, that you have to tear off.
So Chris cut right to the chase, and he says,
has about six miles of range, or 10 kilometers,
But it s not true Americans don t get irony,
that any personal information
 Yes, you know, patents on human genes. 
That s about 36,000, 37,000 dollars.
I went back to my office and sent Chris three articles.
to say when things are not working the way they should do,
(Laughter)
Now Chris is a really brilliant lawyer,
First, we needed to understand exactly what was patented
Gene patents typically contain dozens of claims,
namely, a piece of DNA that has been removed from a cell.
as well as areas that were beginning to see
And that s true,
It s a catastrophe.
So what does that mean?
That means that you can t give your gene to your doctor
It also means that the patent holder has the right to stop anyone
Allowing patent holders,
the wills of their hosts.
And it will cost you upwards of a billion dollars
But then, a lot of people think there are things
So another lab tried to offer the test,
especially in the cerebral cortex.
During that time,
Gene patents clearly were a problem and were harming patients.
But was there a way we could challenge them?
Turns out that the Supreme Court
(Laughter)
You can t patent products of nature --
the air, the water, minerals, elements of the periodic table.
And you can t patent laws of nature --
the law of gravity, E = mc2.
These things are just too fundamental and must remain free to all
And in about 1997, the then-director Philippe de Montebello
as well as developing severe anemia,
that codes for the production of all of our proteins,
As we delved into this issue,
Now one of the interesting things
Most of them agreed that we were right as a matter of policy,
relying on traditional development practices
All of them thought
is a really good basis for democracy.
The patent bar was deeply entrenched in the status quo,
the biotech industry had grown up around this practice,
So the bottom line:
The main entrance should have a public plaza in front of it
if we Lesters got a letter from the government that said,
So we set out to build our case.
Now, patent cases tend to be: Company A sues Company B
We weren t really interested in that kind of case,
and stars of Kentucky
more like a civil rights case.
We set out to identify a gene-patent holder
stepping on a treadmill,
We found the prime candidate to sue in Myriad Genetics,
Myriad held patents on two genes,
the so-called  correction pen. 
that we learned to see so well
It had forced multiple labs that were offering BRCA testing to stop.
It had stopped sharing its clinical data
for most social media companies
Nobody doubts that this is happening in Washington.
a negative test result that should have been positive.
This is Kathleen Maxian.
Kathleen s sister Eileen developed breast cancer at age 40
The test was negative.
I would like to share with you this.
But two years later,
many young people,
It turned out that Kathleen s sister was among the 12 percent
Had Eileen received the proper result,
Once we settled on Myriad,
and many subordinates,
genetic counselors,
It s about interfacing these markets
You re all familiar with colonoscopies,
and individual women who either couldn t afford Myriad s test,
One of the major challenges we had in preparing the case
So in order to argue that what Myriad did was not an invention,
we had to explain a couple of basic concepts, like:
We spent hours and hours with our plaintiffs and experts,
that if we could land miniature Versailles on top of that,
And then, later on, I gave a new name to myself: Satyarthi,
So isolating DNA --
it s like extracting gold from a mountain
or taking it out of a stream bed.
It might ve taken a lot of hard work and effort
you still can t patent it, it s still gold.
and if you can t see anything beautiful about yourself,
plant it, half use for food, half use for fuel.
So computers can also write.
We filed in federal court in the Southern District of New York,
In March 2010, Judge Sweet issued his opinion --
152 pages --
and a complete victory for our side.
In reading the opinion,
(Laughter)
and the separation provoked by rival political forces.
How did he develop such a deep understanding of this issue
When they play economic games with human beings,
Myriad then appealed
And here things got really interesting.
First, in a pivotal moment of this case,
the US government switched sides.
So in the district court the government submitted a brief on Myriad s side.
This was a really big deal,
The Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
is to help these lonely warriors join hands
So even with this remarkable development,
Sort of.
from civil society, Parliament and government,
But the two judges who ruled against us,
The first one, Judge Lourie,
The other, Judge Moore,
But she s like,  I don t want to shake up the biotech industry. 
The third, Judge Bryson,
agreed with us.
about treating cancer.
And I would argue this is fertile ground for exploitation.
Usually these questions take the form of a super-long paragraph,
We submitted perhaps the shortest question presented ever.
Four words:
Are human genes patentable?
Now when Chris first asked me what I thought of these words,
 Nope.
I want the justices to have the very same reaction that I had
Well, I certainly couldn t argue with that.
The Supreme Court only hears about one percent
The day of the oral argument arrives, and it was really, really exciting --
(Laughter)
Chris and I sat quietly in the hallway,
you know, our existence would seem to be amazingly improbable,
I was clearly more nervous than he was.
But any remaining panic subsided as I walked into the courtroom
our individual women clients
the geneticists who had taken huge chunks of time out of their busy careers
by being TEDizens.
consciousness into the physical world.
Also in the room were three leaders of the Human Genome Project,
The argument itself was riveting.
Chris argued brilliantly.
Justice Kagan likened isolating DNA
and couples that don t let trivial things end up being a really big deal.
do it perfectly
We felt pretty confident leaving the courtroom that day,
Thank you.
 A naturally occurring DNA segment is a product of nature,
I challenge you to take ownership of your data.
And furthermore,
Within 24 hours of the decision,
Some of them promised to offer the tests at a lower price than Myriad s.
Some promised to provide a more comprehensive test
But of course the decision goes far beyond Myriad.
It clears a significant barrier to biomedical discovery and innovation.
And it helps to ensure that patients like Abigail, Kathleen and Eileen
A few weeks after the court issued its decision,
It was from Bob Cook-Deegan,
I opened it up to find a small stuffed animal.
(Laughter)
We took a big risk in taking this case.
Part of what gave us the courage to take that risk
The process took nearly eight years from the start to finish,
A little luck certainly helped,
but it was the communities that we bridged,
Thank you.
I m going to give you four specific examples,
with National Geographic,
That s because this is radio.
totally incorrect.
I see a couple of people crying in the back
that I ve blown their idea of mermaids.
but anyone who s gone on a dive
will know that the ocean looks more like this.
The Maasais, the boys are brought up to be warriors.
you re going to lose your colors,
and that we, our society, is going to have to be built on the shoulders of steel of robots in the future.
But we re humans -- we re terrestrial mammals.
And we ve got trichromatic vision,
so we see in red, green and blue,
and we re just complete color addicts.
We love eye-popping color,
and the lynchings of black men.
and they could make beds out of trees,
So there s been a long and sordid history of bringing color underwater,
and it starts 88 years ago with Bill Longley and Charles Martin,
who were trying to take the first underwater color photograph.
and within two weeks, 50,000 people
where you re pumping air down to them,
and they ve got a pontoon of high-explosive magnesium powder,
when I was covering a protest in São Paulo.
with its nose pointed into the wind.
and -- boom! -- a pound of high explosives would go off
so they could put a little bit of light underwater
I added a proximity sensor, so that when you get close
So what have we taught the machine to see?
with a quick trip to the Radio Shack.
so we can satisfy our own addiction to color.
across the continent the entire time,
that we ve been looking at the blue ocean,
free from harassment or violence.
and these animals living there for millions of years
The youth can beat you.
So let s think about the first question.
And here s just a little sample of what this secret world looks like.
It s like an underwater light show.
they can be used for anything imaginable,
Again, what we re seeing here is blue light hitting this image.
These animals are absorbing the blue light
that when you add consecutive Fibonacci numbers,
So if you think about it, the ocean is 71 percent of the planet,
and blue light can extend down to almost a 1,000 meters.
As we go down underwater,
which doesn t count as extraterrestrial intelligence.
So if you see anything under 10 meters that s red,
it s an animal transforming and creating its own red.
Over the subsequent months,
♫ But the kid is not my son ♫
Walk the talk.
and just how cool these things are.
One of the things that they do, one of their miraculous feats,
is they produce lots of these fluorescent proteins,
fluorescent molecules.
And in this coral, it could be making up to 14 percent of its body mass --
could be this fluorescent protein.
So you wouldn t be making, like, 14 percent muscle and not using it,
have minds that microscope.
And for the last 10, 15 years, this was so special to me,
because this molecule has turned out to be one of the most revolutionary tools
in biomedical science,
and it s allowing us to better see inside ourselves.
So, how do I study this?
In order to study biofluorescence, we swim at night.
And when I started out,
Do you see where I m going with this?
in real-life projects across Asia.
that s being transformed by the animals.
We re making an exhibit for the Museum of Natural History,
and we re trying to show off how great the fluorescent corals are on the reef,
and something happened that just blew me away:
In the middle of our corals,
is this green fluorescent fish.
It s the first time we ve ever seen a green fluorescent fish
or any vertebrate for that matter.
And we re rubbing our eyes, checking the filters,
thinking that somebody s maybe playing a joke on us with the camera,
but the eel was real.
It was the first green fluorescent eel that we found,
and this just changed my trajectory completely.
So I had to put down my corals and team up
with a fish scientist, John Sparks,
and how many people that you use,
they were furious.
And fish are much more interesting than corals,
because they have really advanced vision,
and some of the fish even have, the way that I was photographing it,
they have lenses in their eyes that would magnify the fluorescence.
So I wanted to seek this out further.
So we designed a new set of gear
this particular plant is in fact
looking for fluorescent life.
And it s a bit like  E.T. phone home. 
It means that we have this knowledge gap
I think this poses a serious civil liberties threat.
for animals to be absorbing the light and transferring this back to us.
And eventually, we found our photobombing Kaupichphys eel.
It s a really shy, reclusive eel that we know almost nothing about.
They re only about the size of my finger,
But something incredible happened when we launched HeForShe.
But these eels do come out to mate under full-moon nights,
and that full-moon night translates underwater to blue.
Perhaps they re using this as a way to see each other,
quickly find each other, mate,
go back into their hole for the next long stint of time.
But then we started to find other fluorescent marine life,
like this green fluorescent bream,
with its, like, racing stripes along its head and its nape,
and it s almost camouflaged and fluorescing at the same intensity
as the fluorescent coral there.
After this fish,
we were introduced to this red fluorescent scorpionfish
cloaked and hidden on this rock.
The only time we ve ever seen this, it s either on red fluorescent algae
(Imitating Arabic)
Later, we found this stealthy green fluorescent lizardfish.
These lizardfish come in many varieties,
and they look almost exactly alike under white light.
But if you look at them under fluorescent light,
you see lots of patterns,
you can really see the differences among them.
And in total -- we just reported this last year --
 Dating in my 20s was like musical chairs.
One of my inspirations is French artist and biologist Jean Painlevé.
He really captures this entrepreneuring, creative spirit in biology.
He would design his own gear, make his own cameras,
and he was fascinated with the seahorse, Hippocampus erectus,
and he filmed for the first time the seahorse giving birth.
So this is the male seahorse.
They were one of the first fish to start swimming upright
with their brain above their head.
The males give birth,
Then criminals moved to robbing trains.
He even put this electrical visor on his head that would shock him,
so he could capture this moment.
Now, I wish I could have shown Painlevé
the moment where we found biofluorescent seahorses
in the exact same species that he was studying.
And here s our footage.
(Music)
They re the most cryptic fish.
so after a while the process of notating is not only boring,
And we found that corals, even without the biology involved,
and they go through this long mating ritual,
and perhaps they re using it in that effect.
And now, if I touch this piece of pizza,
when we found green fluorescence in the stingray,
because stingrays are in the Elasmobranch class,
which includes ...
By restrictions, I mean, where are you able to live?
So I m, like, a coral biologist.
When you re tired of opening and closing those blinds
(Laughter)
And I was like,  Maybe I should go back to corals. 
(Laughter)
It turns out that these sharks are not fluorescent.
And then we found it.
In a deep, dark canyon off the coast of California,
we found the first biofluorescent swellshark,
And you see this post.
and the cure rate for this procedure is 94 percent.
I mean, let me clarify something right here.
And they call them a swellshark because if they re threatened,
they can gulp down water and blow up like an inner tube,
about twice their size,
and wedge themselves under a rock, so they don t get eaten by a predator.
Just magnificent -- I mean, they re showing these distinct patterns,
and there are areas that are fluorescent and areas that are not fluorescent,
I did everything to get my family to freedom,
that are much brighter than other parts of the shark.
our meeting did not end in my office.
I was like, this is gorgeous.
But what does it mean to the shark?
Can they see this?
And we looked in the literature,
and nothing was known about this shark s vision.
So I took this shark to eye specialist Ellis Loew at Cornell University,
and we found out that this shark sees discretely and acutely
in the blue-green interface,
Do you understand? Just answer yes or no.
but they only see blue-green.
So what it s doing is taking this blue world
and it s absorbing the blue, creating green.
It s creating contrast that they can indeed see.
So we have a model,
showing that it creates an ability for them to see all these patterns.
And males and females also have, we re finding,
to make those things become reality.
it has not necessarily anything to do with you,
I applied to the fire service and I was accepted.
Swimming at night, I encountered the first biofluorescent sea turtle.
which, again, this is only one month old,
but it shows us that we know almost nothing
about this hawksbill turtle s vision.
And it makes me think about how much more there is to learn.
And here in the Solomon Islands,
there s only a few thousand breeding females of this species left,
and this is one of the hotspots for them.
So it shows us how much we need to really protect these animals
while they re still here, and understand them.
They are building an epic knowledge resource
Does this go all the way to the bottom of the ocean?
So we started using submarines, and we equipped them
quintiles of the population, in terms of income,
and we noticed one important thing --
that as we get down to 1,000 meters,
it drops off.
There s no biofluorescent marine life down there, below 1,000 meters --
almost nothing, it s just darkness.
So it s mainly a shallow phenomenon.
And below 1,000 meters,
we encountered the bioluminescent zone,
where nine out of 10 animals are actually making their own lights
and flashing and blinking.
As I try to get deeper,
this is slapping on a one-person submarine suit --
some people call this my  Jacques Cousteau meets Woody Allen  moment.
(Laughter)
But as we explore down here,
I was thinking about: How do we interact with life delicately?
or why there are differences between men and women
where we have to take great care,
and we have to set examples how we explore.
So I ve teamed up with roboticist Rob Wood at Harvard University,
and we ve been designing squishy underwater robot fingers,
so we can delicately interact with the marine life down there.
an international bank account number and an international debit card.
come from oil and gas and military,
who, you know, they re not really caring to be gentle.
Some corals could be 1,000 years old.
So whenever they d launch a big ship,
So my dream is something like this.
At night, I m in a submarine,
I have force-feedback gloves,
and I could delicately set up a lab in the front of my submarine,
where the squishy robot fingers
are delicately collecting and putting things in jars,
and we can conduct our research.
Back to the powerful applied applications.
Here, you re looking at a living brain
that s using the DNA of fluorescent marine creatures,
this one from jellyfish and corals,
to illuminate the living brain and see its connections.
It s funny that we re using RGB
just to kind of satisfy our own human intuition,
so we can see our brains better.
And even more mind-blowing,
is my close colleague Vincent Pieribone at Yale,
who has actually designed and engineered a fluorescent protein
as it could be read together
So he could see when a single neuron fires.
You re essentially looking at a portal into consciousness
that was designed by marine creatures.
So Donald goes into this slew of medications he was taking.
From deep space,
our universe looks like a human brain cell,
and then here we are in the deep ocean,
and we re finding marine creatures and cells
It was a matter of,
Collins coached us on doing something
we could ponder the overarching interconnectedness of all life,
and fathom how much more lies in store
and what do we cure in them?
Thank you.
(Applause)
Democracy.
In the West,
We see democracy
not as the most fragile of flowers that it really is,
Surrounded by people,
There is the gallery somewhere
that you could summarize it in six words:
It was grey and black, and he thought it looked cheap.
And luckily he agreed.
spectacular growth,
and it s nailing frogs all over the world.
in the Eurogroup as its Finance Minister,
I was told in no uncertain terms that our nation s democratic process --
could not be allowed to interfere
we know from asking people to remember the past,
there are some commonalities.
to see what we can do about it,
or the Chinese Communist Party,
of the Ejagham people in southern Nigeria.
through a period of digital information,
that Lee Kuan Yew,
the Chinese Communist Party
It has competing dependencies,
which have transformed the economic situation
our societies will be nastier,
So, the water bottle.
Speaking of waste,
So he needs to make sure that he s really on the right end of this.
Imagine that.
because now, total strangers from all walks of life
you know it, you recognize it --
in the local media combined with false rumors
which they disperse throughout the habitat through their feces.
We all recognize the mountain of debts.
So with those as the principles --
belonging to rich savers and to corporations,
too terrified to invest it
It was an image of fishing boats
and which can produce all those things that humanity desperately needs,
amongst thousands of others who come and go every day.
Over the last three months,
in the United States, in Britain and in the Eurozone,
was in the spring of 2004. I still don t know exactly
They re selling electricity back to the grid
Since 1970, no human beings
roads, railways, machinery, and so on and so forth.
They were the original shoulders.
like all of us in those conversations,
I learned that the counter-terrorism unit
to people s strict gender expectations.
So a mountain of debt and a mountain of idle cash
Egan convinced The New Yorker
So, really, this is the dream,
How ironic if these isolated Indians and their magic frog
(Laughter)
You could never afford to do this in a company.
None of those are on my bucket list.
three key things we have to do
so it s really gotten to be a huge thing.
he publishes it and he holds a contest on the Internet
that his son would grow up to kill him,
unwittingly engineered the conditions
that insured that Oedipus, his son, would kill him.
the average temperatures over land are actually going to be higher
and it can be shared at the speed of light.
all this idle cash,
should be energized to improve lives,
and they said,  Doctor Moskowitz, we want to make the perfect pickle. 
Well, the first thing is,
Seeds are energy-rich so there s a lot of food calories,
But they aren t supposed to come back.
After he was shot, Raisuddin s life grew no easier.
I believe so,
and it s with another consenting asexual -- I don t know.
as the constitution in which the free and the poor,
Women, migrants and, of course, the slaves.
but your résumé reads,  Underwear Model: 10 years, 
to dismiss the significance of ancient Athenian democracy
was the inclusion of the working poor,
who not only acquired the right to free speech,
they acquired the rights to political judgments
combined with them essentially grieving the loss of their son,
to reveal its cellular structure.
because we live in a time where we re turning to data more and more
he was denied the bounty usually paid out
but for many women of color
indeed in the American constitution.
despite the fact that we have a lot of clever self-repair mechanisms,
But there s no major difference.
our liberal democracies are founded on the Magna Carta tradition,
I remember one particularly low moment.
Why has that happened?
leaving the economic sphere --
There d be a little paper me. And a little paper you.
are disowned.
Now, in our democracies today,
Not a bad idea. I don t know.
and used them as refrigerator magnets to let them know
But I made this particular comment
the Native Americans say,
eating into its power.
Have you wondered why politicians are not what they used to be?
is the low-hanging fruit.
because power has migrated from the political to the economic sphere,
Sometimes even reporters have reported to me that they vandalized Wikipedia
Indeed,
not to kill,
that in the end they starve.
Similarly,
so that they can plan meals
And we can only create these out of darkness.
causing economic crisis.
People had climbed onto carts and wagons in the street.
Childbirth is, and always will be, an enormous psychological event.
which are to switch to fuels which don t pollute as much
aggregate demand is falling
it s starting to seem increasingly likely
If you listen to what men say about what they want in their lives,
You see the geniality of his creation, right directly
And he s looked at the problem of the health impacts
and humanity s wealth.
we must reunite the political and economic spheres
and better do it with a demos being in control,
like in ancient Athens except without the slaves
or the exclusion of women and migrants.
of race and gender,
even becoming aggressive when introduced to them.
Probiotics are one thing that you can try and do to restore
This is an actual sailfin goby,
it was magnified by more emotional pain.
But there is a solution:
Capitalism s doing it
Remember:
that as long as the economic and the political spheres are separate,
I am more patient with love. I am more relaxed.
and the social conflicts deeper,
keeps doing this work.
and the people that tip the scales over to the ethical and the moral
sense of being,
What of the babies?
but we d better do it by democratizing the reunified sphere,
lest we end up with a surveillance-mad hyperautocracy
They re just a form of life,
Until quite recently,
Women are now allowed to pray in our church-wide meetings,
The more interesting question
or something much closer to a Star Trek-like society,
and indulging in long debates about the meaning of life
in some ancient, Athenian-like, high tech agora.
that has the use of violence well under control.
If you get out of the way,
to be known, to be seen, to be understood.
watching a game on TV recently.
At the level of the enterprise,
This was a very widely reported incident
where you earn capital as you work,
from one company to another,
whichever one you happen to work at at that time --
is solely owned by those who happen to work in it at that moment.
gave us a second human need, which is uncertainty.
and the very concept of wage labor becomes obsolete.
No more separation between those who own but do not work in the company
With 80 percent of people who don t like the work they do,
indeed, no towering twin peaks.
It s being built as we speak
So here s a picture of what we re doing.
It lets you interconnect ideas,
whether they re simple and obvious
doesn t mean we should start building desalination plants everywhere.
that all international trade is denominated in this currency --
let s call it  the cosmos, 
and my challenge was to show that this math --
No, not like that.
And so we redesigned chemistry, we redesigned physics.
but that s the reality of living as a refugee in Western Europe in 2015.
gang rapes in Badaun and acid attacks in Odisha
and I said,  Well, when do they go in? 
This is not a new idea.
And when it comes to architecture in cities,
in 1944 at the Bretton Woods Conference.
The problem is
that back then, they didn t have the technology to implement it.
Failed states have no legitimized, democratically controlled use of force.
especially in the context of a reunified political-economic sphere.
So the developers say, well, this is great.
is simultaneously libertarian,
in that it prioritizes empowered individuals,
Marxist,
since it will have confined to the dustbin of history
the division between capital and labor,
and Keynesian,
but the babies born during a production are listed there.
But above all else,
Alice Bows-Larkin: Yeah, it s just nowhere near enough to avoid two degrees.
Will such a world dawn?
Or shall we descend into a Matrix-like dystopia?
It is our choice,
We can just send a message and hope for the best.
Thank you.
(Applause)
RM: Meanwhile, back in San Francisco.
It was you who described yourself in your bios as a libertarian Marxist.
What is the relevance of Marx s analysis today?
is going to be the century of what they call the  symmetrical marriage, 
then Marx is relevant.
the defaults, the particular options that are presented to us, and so on.
then technological innovation is going to create
all of the administrators --
This just shows you the data that comes from the sensors
So we decided to start an organization
or a football team -- and I work extensively in that realm as well --
But until that day comes,
Let s move here. While they install for the next performance,
the best you can ever hope for
The danger is not at all unprecedented.
that s why I m a libertarian Marxist,
and so is Keynes,
so that s why I m totally confused.
It doesn t really feel like playing mindless action video games.
Middle World is the narrow range of reality
(Laughter)
what they ve figured out to be true
you might be post-baby,
BG: That s a very, very Greek philosopher kind of thing to say --
YV: That was Einstein, actually --
aid does damages because it removes the government from its citizens.
and last night at the speaker dinner,
you expressed a pretty strong opinion about how the West looks at China.
Would you like to share that?
YV: Well, there s a great degree of hypocrisy.
In our liberal democracies, we have a semblance of democracy.
It s because we have confined, as I was saying in my talk,
democracy to the political sphere,
while leaving the one sphere where all the action is --
this is not,
a completely democracy-free zone.
And this was the first line of that article:
if I am allowed to be provocative,
But the thing is that for every 15,000 dollars
Because remember,
we tend to associate liberalism with democracy --
that s a mistake, historically.
Liberalism, liberal, it s like John Stuart Mill.
John Stuart Mill was particularly skeptical about the democratic process.
So what you are seeing now in China is a very similar process
to the one that we had in Britain during the Industrial Revolution,
I think gradually, as we see species all around the world,
And to be castigating China
for doing that which the West did in the 19th century,
Joel Spolsky and Jeff Atwood, decided to start something
BG: I am sure that many people here are wondering about your experience
as the Finance Minister of Greece earlier this year.
Bill Gates: I ll ask about two or three questions.
BG: Yes.
BG: Six months after,
and get it out in the world.
is full of surprise.
and very disappointing,
because we had an opportunity to reboot the Eurozone.
Not just Greece, the Eurozone.
Thank you very much.
and the constant denial that there was a massive --
and there is a massive architectural fault line
going through the Eurozone,
which is threatening, massively, the whole of the European Union process.
We had an opportunity on the basis of the Greek program --
was the first program to manifest that denial --
it points to a lingerie-selling website.
Okay, almost all of you.
the powers in the Eurozone,
in the Eurogroup,
chose to maintain denial.
But you know what happens.
This is the experience of the Soviet Union.
When you try to keep alive
an economic system that architecturally cannot survive,
you may succeed in prolonging it,
but when change happens
it happens very abruptly and catastrophically.
(Applause)
YV: Well, there s no doubt
that if we don t change the architecture of the Eurozone,
the Eurozone has no future.
let s reach out the reality we live in every day,
YV: Every day.
BG: For example? YV: Anybody who looks back --
(Applause)
No, but seriously.
If there s any Minister of Finance, or of anything else for that matter,
who tells you after six months in a job,
especially in such a stressful situation,
that they have made no mistake, they re dangerous people.
Of course I made mistakes.
The greatest mistake was to sign the application
Ben Saunders: Yeah, hi, Ben Saunders.
in the end of February.
I was imagining
that there was a genuine interest on the side of the creditors
to find common ground.
And there wasn t.
They were simply interested in crushing our government,
So, thanks very much.
to have to deal with the architectural fault lines
that were running through the Eurozone.
And because they didn t want to admit
that for five years they were implementing a catastrophic program in Greece.
We lost one-third of our nominal GDP.
This is worse than the Great Depression.
And no one has come clean
from the troika of lenders that have been imposing this policy
That happens to be the same amount of solar cell capacity
and despite the aggressiveness of the discussion,
is that if you shatter the fishbowl so that everything is possible,
 Why do academics hate Wikipedia? 
Look, my criticism of the European Union and the Eurozone
comes from a person who lives and breathes Europe.
My greatest fear is that the Eurozone will not survive.
Because if it doesn t,
Thank you, James, for your great inspiration.
will be demonic,
and they will destroy the European Union.
And that will be catastrophic not just for Europe
and I was finally unconditionally grateful
We are probably the largest economy in the world.
And if we allow ourselves
to fall into a route of the postmodern 1930 s,
which seems to me to be what we are doing,
then that will be detrimental
to the future of Europeans and non-Europeans alike.
BG: We definitely hope you are wrong on that point.
Yanis, thank you for coming to TED.
YV: Thank you.
(Applause)
the kind that can potentially save lives,
a safe and well-paid job.
in our lifetime, and it will happen
Instead, you may ask yourself, what do we have?
not imaginatively.
and you were to compare animals with brains of different sizes,
And this person was very forceful and said,
And so, that s the clue.
weighing about 10 tons, and was a woodland-adapted species
Now, this development took place as a great evolution,
with some doctor you ve never met
and that s what Howard thought.
and we ve got to figure out how to globalize
JC: One of the first countries that we traveled to was Nepal.
By the way, in this hall where we are now,
on your face and you looked at my mom and my dad,
When you become fluent with language,
Now that doesn t mean they only get half their education,
but what we don t realize is that this system
There were angry patrons in Florence because he had left a stack
that the light that falls onto your eye,
about psychoactive drugs: the history, the science,
So this animal has actually had the whole world
But parents tell them,
that are increasingly sucking more and more activity and resource
and so he played to his strengths.
Instead of being accustomed to filling space with busyness,
that go in parallel stripes across the sky?
(Explosion)
They stick, and then they try to go into the lung
that we associate with brain function.
and she taught me how to love myself
Visitors to  Ocean Atlas  in the Bahamas highlighted a leak
reaching up above his head to paint the stories on the ceiling.
Don t let it claim you.
And I didn t expect to get an answer from Google,
It limited the number of fonts you could get
and that will inevitably lower property values in urban neighborhoods.
and more sustainable existence --
go-for-this, go-for-that assistant when I walk out that door,
It puts us at the edge of our seats,
and together their proud posture turns into folded shame.
in Flushing, Queens
and those platforms, as an organizer,
it was caused by injustice.
or into the museum setting, behind glass,
We collected this, we got it back to the lab, we got it to fertilize
heading towards at least nine,
watered-down versions of the extremity of the diatomic structures.
I know you aren t allowed to ask me questions,
Children are taken from their families
and when Juliano makes the decision to kick the ball,
what automatically comes to mind for me is  at the same time. 
to focusing, this rough magic that we do in theater,
who act out in sexist ways will lose status,
Well, they found the names and information
came out with a workshop report
It s not uncommon to feel like you re alone
overcome obstacles --
To conclude, then:
or dislike.
Who am I in this picture?
Sustainable harmony means now we will reduce inequality.
the speed of the human.
like using mobile telephony to offer clean energy
The printing press made sure that everybody saw it.
And so, this wasn t something that happened within a couple of weeks.
That s what is so exciting for me about this prime number.
looking upwards with their jaws dropped.
to provide every student with an individual human tutor.
Common ground is often very hard to find.
It s just about 20 years ago,
is probably more likely of a pasty kid
as a secretary in the dean s office,
at least some of what I m about to say,
If you drive your car around the United States,
And it made me think. I love studying
So every week, 11 women and me got together.
nor see it ever again.
has helped to spur industrialization
it s that the world exists. 
Is it the Zetas? The drug traffickers? The government?
Some of you might know it.
although I can t remember which party it s supporting or attacking.
So just to back up and explain,
I wanted them to be safe.
and it makes our private mental models visible
but who s counting?
It doesn t mean I won t some day, but I haven t yet.
that all I could think was,
 Yeah, but you know I d rather finish my meal if you don t mind. 
It s about realizing that
AT: Well, I think it s got to be understood
It teaches you focus; you have to talk fast or say less,
I have things to do, people to impress,
and then he takes a pause,
Some developed alcoholism. A few developed schizophrenia.
for a total of 30 million dollars
where we have long lives and small family, and we have a completely new world.
and I believe that if we have that capability,
So I literally took my dried weeds in hand,
But for me, it was the abstract shapes, what we call geometric signs,
(Laughter)
reconstructing this extraordinary journey
the woman cutting my hair asked me,
as it pertains to pollutants in the water
that was the space where we sought pure love.
that can feed more people
I am going through the z-axis.
Now one of the things that I do is I don t use any filters,
This now bears very little physical
is that in identical twins,
 provider of food for mother and child. 
but even to emotional intelligence.
and put pressure on governments, the pharmaceutical industry,
I would like to share with you
That s an open buggy. It doesn t have heating.
the Kresge Foundation and the city of Detroit
It s on the input side. It s concern with
and the other one s written by a computer.
And they were trying to -- they knew that the brain was involved
 Mother s Day, 
It s a fascinating place. It s a huge place.
there was a sudden, violent change to the environment.
at about 75 miles an hour.
that a bird will fly and not / roar or bark. Enthralling stories about animals
in many other countries is a lot higher.
and the second poem was written by a guy called Frank O Hara,
so that it has more contact with the exterior?
is the greatest remaining temperate rainforest in the world,
The initial rise of the Taliban in war-torn Afghanistan,
whether they are talking to a computer or a human,
It s called bot or not,
and it wasn t a sound, it was a smell.
makes your eyesight worse.
it s .05 percent who are our relevant funders in America.
What happens when you have clouds?
And in order to understand how serotonin works,
of any kind was rare, tapestries were an incredibly potent
Well, yes, absolutely it can.
from an animal, through a simple biopsy.
(Dinosaur roaring) (Laughter)
But what it turned out to be,
Ribbons of flags / And wearing material / Reasons for wearing material. (...)
Poem 2: A wounded deer leaps highest, / I ve heard the daffodil
You could do that with your eyes closed.
and then it regenerates language
So combine those with the adventurous outliers
So far we ve had humans that write like humans,
is what we call forward citations: How many times
Well today, I m very pleased to report to you
He slapped my knee, and he said,  Hey Rich, I just want you to know one thing.
(Laughter)
holographic-like interference structures
Tim was pretty happy that day.
So as businesspeople, as consumers,
But let me stress two things here.
Americans and Europeans
So my final insight is that the computer, more or less,
I know nothing about the statement
all being discarded. This is one day s waste
That is the rocket designer s dream.
so she at least knows how to advise the patients better?
is less likely to remember the same word
and the construction sites of the big cities.
and that has nothing to do with the surveillance state that we face. 
(Applause)
 We re bringing you back to Taiwan. 
I think each one is about the size of California.
You might think that these plants look dead,
and what has to happen
and then it gets warmer and warmer
of the global GDP.
I was so scared and so convinced that I couldn t do this,
I m here to talk about books.
If you re hoping to live to be 85 or older,
or being able to stand up and reach it.
and we should be allowed to carry on doing it.
And I m going to tell you what the cost of Wikipedia is.
And somebody said,  Well what was that reaction? 
to help catadores and their carroças.
as well as family-safe app stores.
They send down very deep roots,
mine subterranean water supplies
and kids are really important to most people. 
It does not tell the traveler where she s going
and they said, a single oncogene can do it.
to the next level of citizen response,
It s exciting, and I will tell you
And in fact, when the war ended and he was released,
Well, while Aurora was playing this game, as you saw,
And he asked that particular person,
would help Muslims progress --
16 inmates and 18 girls were invited.
6 million quizzes in the 15 classes that have launched
I logged on to a citizen journalism platform
CC: Triplet-triplet. Triplet-triplet.
Part of me wanted to cry and another part wanted to fight.
But of course, that only works when we have both of these components.
We have a number of missions telling us exactly the same thing today.
was October 7, 2014.
A lot of teachers are using this stuff.
I m going to show you a video
doesn t have to have perfect color uniformity.
about 10 years ago. We met in Vancouver,
These interrelated forms, they do inspire everything I do,
But unlike the Higgs field, this number has no known explanation.
which is a very wonderful place to be.
I wanted to find out: do they do the same thing?
that we can go down that s going to be more effective
George Bush s favorite channel,
from the Ministry of Justice, and we learn,
What I m suggesting is, when you connect with people
They re being subjective,
So for the next two years,
On this particular evening,
the decisions that have shaped your destiny.
perhaps creates a freedom
they were time-consuming,
not with automated tools but out of his email box.
also have the highest levels of happiness.
not just for product design, but for everything we do.
It s like 21st-century Henry Moore.
It wasn t your ability; it was your state.
Let s look at the big picture.
sending back information on the distance I d covered --
Where is the soldier in each son?
This whole process took nearly two years,
And what they re doing is essentially building a map of the orchard.
And in order to do that
with my active involvement --
and pay money for them
And each gene has a promoter,
was that humans on the Internet are scumbags.
and stands up against the real bad guys,
It s a great bird,
We wash the bug out.
Could you put into practice effectively
you re going to be transported to the parking lot.
And guess what? We need to.
And then the Tasmanian devil is going to pop a thylacine out the south end.
that has led to the resolution of many civil wars.
but growing something.
about how they feel about a particular film.
how newborns, engage with the world,
So the rest was merely a couple of months of work,
What s in it for the institution?
and she had this idea, and she goes,  Dad, I ve got this idea. 
Openness. It s a word that
It s a caviar vending machine.
(Laughter)
for what you re seeing and hearing right now,
There s plenty of things that are being called green now.
1915 must have been an exciting year to be a physicist.
to look at microbial populations in biological reactors,
Now, a lot of people will tell you
that I m hoping to share with you all today.
Basically, if we think about language,
and at other times crawling beneath the seats,
 It s a Bacchanal by Titian. 
something which scares us and fascinates us
But what I want to teach you today
ran an article on calcium as a treatment for PMS,
They have no concept of what it is that s involved.
There was no guidebook available to me
So put that library at the bottom of that ship --
And I realized something interesting:
So I did get my treatment at the cancer center where I worked,
I work with biologists.
Many of these life-forms live in unusual ways.
So I like to think that was the moment I became a middle class white man,
that class and race and gender were not about other people,
When we look at an animal like this remipede swimming in the jar,
(Applause)
Communication is becoming a center of life,
by going to something called the Oculus Rift,
They could play these like pianos.
Hands up.
I also work with physicists,
and they tell the story of the different spaces
They are the cause of much distress.
You ll notice that transportation s sort of second down that list,
that it was just a matter of changing the perspective,
is actually dust from the Sahara Desert.
(Laughter)
hung two bloggers with a sign that said,
Somehow, you come up with a mathematical theory,
The suit itself can protect me from the cold.
were Westerners.
The first time it happened,
and they tell us a lot
they can be used
by tracking its biggest pieces
So I swam under houses and businesses and bowling alleys and golf courses,
The second project I want to talk to you about is the Thylacine Project.
Well, they were out,
And when we can understand our human connections with our groundwater
is what differentiates you in the talent pool? 
creates people who are fitted to the demands of that institution
And on one occasion, I think I spoke in Geneva
and the quote was,
And then he took this whole raft of 45 spaghetti sauces,
I ve found, after doing this for many, many years,
a pitiable flight from life.
So what would be better than to use the herring gull, in its freedom,
those are the ants you see walking around —
for pollination and, even more recently,
Takes a licking!
I found my passion.
and conceptual possibility.
or your knee or your stomach,
which raises the question of, who is it I m working for?
of creating a mechanical version of ourselves.
to the late Steve Irwin.
and then I ll be able to public speak and maybe be the prime minister
And as you re thinking about that,
a 1950s housewife into a blender. (Laughter)
Of course, the skyscraper is vertical -- it s a profoundly hierarchical structure,
It was a punishment for daring to challenge
and the taller you are, the better, so it seems.
and thinking less
into that same state of waithood?
But the document I happened to see
and that s my talk. So we ll look at automobiles.
with his arms, and presumably has a similar
This is what it means. [ Make it look like something else. ]
The same thing happend. He was the first
She also had duplicates.
and suddenly you see the building portrayed no longer as physical matter,
of psychological, physical injury I ve ever seen
There were other cases in which there was no evidence of an injury whatsoever,
Debra Brown: I am known as Inmate 007080.
not just the models themselves.
in flight from violence
do seem to require quantum mechanics.
a very tight system that, although the tower isolates you,
on more than half the world s land,
against the rain.
start with theories and hypotheses,
in the West Garfield neighborhood of Chicago.
in the next 10, and the next
and say,  I m going through hell, 
Thank you. (Applause)
 If I look at the mass, I will never act.
We first proved that all apartments would have sufficient daylight
People are telling us it s just like Wall Street. It s not just like Wall Street.
Those governments invest in that infrastructure
since it first popped up in Central Africa in 1976.
so that those would be usable throughout the entire year.
And next time you think of a gift
They are the bits that we use
 I m thinking about having a child. 
a giant stalk of wheat
we shouldn t beat our head against a wall
and you ll see the fly start to fly, and the fly is actually
We no longer live in a world
and it meets the big three at GRC:
Thank you for your backup singing.
for anybody and everybody who s interested
since Newtown,
Siddhartha Mukherjee: It s a very interesting question.
I need to make a confession at the outset here.
 If you want to liberate a society,
all you need is the Internet. 
I was wrong.
I said those words back in 2011,
when a Facebook page I anonymously created
I will never forget the excitement as we closed the coast.
The Arab Spring revealed social media s greatest potential,
but it also exposed its greatest shortcomings.
The same tool that united us to topple dictators
eventually tore us apart.
I would like to share my own experience in using social media for activism,
is sports.
and what we could do about them.
In the early 2000s,
which is why you can hear so many of them,
Thirsty for knowledge, for opportunities,
develop healthy relationships with their fathers? 
we escaped our frustrating political realities
and lived a virtual, alternative life.
Just like many of them, I was completely apolitical until 2009.
At the time, when I logged into social media,
takes a major toll on our planet.
aspiring for political change in the country.
It felt like I was not alone.
context is everything.
I even took a job at Google,
While browsing Facebook,
when they were placed, face down, on a hard surface.
of a young Egyptian guy.
Consciousness is not a part of the physical world.
Khaled was a 29-year-old Alexandrian who was killed by police.
I saw myself in his picture.
I thought,  I could be Khaled. 
to limit the power, whether it was of tyrants
I anonymously created a Facebook page
and called it  We are all Khaled Said. 
In just three days, the page had over 100,000 people,
stood in between us to maybe assess
Whatever was happening had to stop.
And they kind of took me into the farm
We worked together for hours and hours.
Over three out of five Americans think we have
We were engaging them.
We were calling collectively for actions,
It was deemed to be an unpredictable event.
The page became the most followed page
But most of all, the teacher was just writing on the board --
It had more fans than established media organizations
and even top celebrities.
On January 14, 2011,
Ben Ali fled out of Tunisia
after mounting protests against his regime.
I saw a spark of hope.
Egyptians on social media were wondering,
 If Tunisia did it, why can t we? 
increase retirement age —
 A Revolution against Corruption, Injustice and Dictatorship. 
I posed a question to the 300,000 users of the page at the time:
 Today is the 14th of January.
Everything you ve seen today is built with the basic
It s a national holiday.
If 100,000 of us take to the streets of Cairo,
no one is going to stop us.
even kings and queens. (Applause)
In just a few days, the invitation reached over a million people,
and over 100,000 people confirmed attendance.
Social media was crucial for this campaign.
It helped a decentralized movement arise.
We know that the brain caps off
And it made it impossible for the regime to stop it.
At the time, they didn t even understand it.
And on January 25th, Egyptians flooded the streets of Cairo and other cities,
calling for change,
breaking the barrier of fear
and we could build a million- square-foot distribution center? 
Then came the consequences.
and the negative energy in them?
I was walking in a dark street in Cairo, around midnight.
I had just tweeted,  Pray for Egypt.
The government must be planning a massacre tomorrow. 
I was hit hard on my head.
I lost my balance and fell down,
to find four armed men surrounding me.
All in all, I wouldn t trade my autism and my imagination for the world.
I knew I was being kidnapped by state security.
I found myself in a cell,
handcuffed, blindfolded.
I was terrified.
So was my family,
who started looking for me
in hospitals, police stations and even morgues.
After my disappearance,
a few of my fellow colleagues who knew I was the admin of the page
(Applause)
and that I was likely arrested by state security.
My colleagues at Google started a search campaign trying to find me,
we d love to know what s going on inside their brain.
After 11 days of complete darkness,
I was set free.
And three days later,
Mubarak was forced to step down.
It was the most inspiring and empowering moment of my life.
It was a time of great hope.
Egyptians lived a utopia for 18 days during the revolution.
They all shared the belief
that we could actually live together despite our differences,
that Egypt after Mubarak would be for all.
But unfortunately,
number one; basketball was second, because it was paying their way,
The euphoria faded,
we failed to build consensus,
and the political struggle led to intense polarization.
Social media only amplified that state,
and the country s economy continues to suffer.
What we can do is we can take our mice
The environment was purely toxic.
My online world became a battleground filled with trolls, lies, hate speech.
again and again and again,
But of course, this wasn t just about me.
that we don t know all that we thought we did.
the army supporters and the Islamists.
People in the center, like me,
one they thought was meaningful and important.
Both groups wanted you to side with them;
you were either with them or against them.
And on the 3rd of July 2013,
the army ousted Egypt s first democratically elected president,
after three days of popular protest that demanded his resignation.
That day I made a very hard decision.
I decided to go silent, completely silent.
It was a moment of defeat.
I stayed silent for more than two years,
and I used the time to reflect on everything that happened,
So many stories emerge from these dynamics
It became clear to me
that while it s true that polarization is primarily driven
by our human behavior,
She said,  You are, because, see, it happens to everyone.
Say you want to say something that is not based on a fact,
pick a fight or ignore someone that you don t like.
These are all natural human impulses,
but because of technology,
acting on these impulses is only one click away.
into a way to make a living.
facing today s social media.
Arthur Samuel knew something else.
And I think this is our challenge, because somebody
More than traditional leadership programs,
 From them I extended my hands and stole you -- 
We tend to only communicate with people that we agree with,
and thanks to social media,
we can mute, un-follow and block everybody else.
Third, online discussions quickly descend into angry mobs.
All of us probably know that.
on the merits of being a dome.
that the people behind screens are actually real people
and not just avatars.
And fourth, it became really hard to change our opinions.
Because of the speed and brevity of social media,
we are forced to jump to conclusions
and write sharp opinions in 140 characters
about complex world affairs.
And once we do that, it lives forever on the Internet,
Just be aware of the pressure.
for obvious reasons —
Fifth -- and in my point of view, this is the most critical --
today, our social media experiences are designed in a way
that favors broadcasting over engagements,
posts over discussions,
Within 24 hours, the Georgia Billy Possum Company
It s as if we agreed that we are here to talk at each other
instead of talking with each other.
I witnessed how these critical challenges contributed
to an already polarized Egyptian society,
but this is not just about Egypt.
Polarization is on the rise in the whole world.
We need to work hard on figuring out
how technology could be part of the solution,
costs in business and government,
There s a lot of debate today on how to combat online harassment
and fight trolls.
This is so important.
No one could argue against that.
your biosamples, your blood, and share them in a biobank,
that promote civility and reward thoughtfulness.
and with me I have KeraJaan and Mei,
if I write a post that is more sensational,
more one-sided, sometimes angry and aggressive,
I get to have more people see that post.
I will get more attention.
But what if we put more focus on quality?
What is more important:
the total number of readers of a post you write,
or who are the people who have impact that read what you write?
to find a healthy country in Latin America.
rather than just broadcasting opinions all the time?
Or reward people for reading
and responding to views that they disagree with?
hydrogen or advanced biofuels.
or probably even reward that?
What if we have a matrix that says how many people changed their minds,
and that becomes part of our social media experience?
to shift our focus to where real life occurs.
I d probably write more thoughtfully, trying to do that,
rather than appealing to the people who already agree with me
and  liking  because I just confirmed their biases.
We also need to think about effective crowdsourcing mechanisms,
to fact-check widely spread online information,
and reward people who take part in that.
In essence, we need to rethink today s social media ecosystem
and redesign its experiences
to reward thoughtfulness, civility and mutual understanding.
As a believer in the Internet, I teamed up with a few friends,
started a new project,
trying to find answers and explore possibilities.
Our first product is a new media platform for conversations.
We re hosting conversations that promote mutual understanding
and hopefully change minds.
We don t claim to have the answers,
but we started experimenting with different discussions
about very divisive issues,
such as race, gun control, the refugee debate,
The next part I want to show you is something about positive motivation.
These are conversations that matter.
Today, at least one out of three people on the planet
have access to the Internet.
But part of this Internet is being held captive
by the less noble aspects of our human behavior.
Five years ago, I said,
 If you want to liberate society,
all you need is the Internet. 
Today, I believe if we want to liberate society,
we give the bacteria billions of chances
Thank you very much.
(Applause)
I m assuming everyone here has watched
because the news mostly depressed him.
to fix that bug, the driver.
The microbes in your gut can influence your weight and your moods.
But like most things in technology
and trying to figure out if there was some way to help them.
And there are some people
and I ve filmed some of them,
my personal truth is that law enforcement is in a crisis.
on someone who was going to die anyway.
And the Shephelah, if you ve been to Israel, you ll know
If I m the worst person in the world,
And we discovered this recipe
it requires a combination of two things,
It s always reminded me of the Apollo image of the Earth,
and it was going to be a very expensive technology,
whale poop and rotting carcasses.
I discovered that, if I worked on a larger scale and with bigger materials,
Y all know what I m talking about.
That drives up the cost of this robot.
Because think about the teddy bear.
who d done an economics doctorate at Harvard,
And when you look at what happens to that pipeline,
the most impoverished district --
What I learned from the yo-yo is,
about work and play and about four aspects of life
and she simply has enough,
So seeing this in practice,
And this is true across the animal kingdom.
Now we can see this as the biggest bias of all.
They re made by the gazillions in China and India,
See, police have a problem.
but we never talk to the community about them.
And we shove them into the community and say,  Take that. 
watts each person is producing,
and what I felt I could read as an adult.
The academic publishing environment is very different now.
which might turn into a place
if you learn to respond
black poets, authors and philosophers,
and could really make an effect on the stock market,
(Laughter) (Applause)
(Laughter)
is to protect and serve.
but to become a place where people want to be.
And I know why it happens.
That s where the helium is.
I mean, literally no traffic congestion in Oklahoma City to speak of.
There is no way in the world
in this particular way?
So for example, I m going to show you a sequence,
Standard &amp; Poor s, and Fitch will tell us
You know who came? It was the elders.
(Music)
So it takes all of us, all of us.
It has led me to further my research
in less than 15 years,
everything its brain has to compute with such tiny neurons.
Herman Melville, who used this story as research for  Moby Dick, 
and I wasn t getting anywhere. So I went back and dumped
She had bipolar illness,
If you had spaces like this all over the world,
It would take care of itself.
(Laughter)
when I was working with the late,
First, transport. Here are the physics principles that tell you
It s right at the southernmost tip of Norway.
You know, Lebanon as a country has been once destroyed
and Olivia, the dog, is 16.
The Euromaidan protests began peacefully at the end of 2013,
No.
they don t just get three times bigger; they gain new structures.
Jarrett would walk out on the same stage,
What I am trying to do as a photographer,
to halt environmental destruction.
Vera was introducing Keith to the piano in question,
and it wasn t going well.
Ten thousand years ago, there were about five million human beings on Earth.
We put suffocation warnings on every piece of plastic film
walked around it,
is that maybe we actually can.
Most of what we know about human life
Then the producer came over to Vera and said ...
 If you don t get a new piano, Keith can t play. 
Now the thing is, I would like to put it to you
The opera house had provided the wrong instrument.
This one had this harsh, tinny upper register,
the white notes were out of tune,
Some people -- let s be honest --
But it was something
He was waiting.
Because there was no coach standing directly over you,
right across the street from here.
and he says,  These are the threats, these are the details,
but she couldn t get a new piano.
It has a little cough and a hiccup, and out comes sprays of little frogs.
I did not choose to take up the pen,
And yet we re meant to be educating them for it.
And he looked out of his car
the camera.
and said,
 Never forget ... only for you. 
on Europa, on Ganymede, on Enceladus, on Titan,
I have an opinion of this myself because of the business I m in,
and began.
Within moments it became clear that something magical was happening.
he had to set up these rumbling, repetitive riffs in the bass.
desperately trying to create enough volume to reach the people in the back row.
It s an electrifying performance.
everyone, including scientists, mistakenly confused Alzheimer s with aging.
The Global Media Monitoring Project has found that stories by female reporters
And the audience loved it.
because the recording of the Köln Concert
is the best-selling piano album in history
Binary information makes your phone work,
Keith Jarrett had been handed a mess.
But let s think for a moment about Jarrett s initial instinct.
He didn t want to play.
Of course,
I call that a problem worth solving.
would feel the same way, we d have the same instinct.
memory to the digital world,
And I think our instinct is also wrong.
But I can live up to that. I don t have a problem with that.
for the unexpected advantages of having to cope with a little mess.
So let me give you some examples
Now I don t say that is necessarily a bad thing.
but it s much better than you would expect,
Ultimately, we conservationists,
and we re involved in a couple of new city projects in China.
considered to be vulnerable
Why are you saying that? Open up a journal.
with varying degrees of success.
and the short story on Twitter,
and that strangeness is a consequence of innovative thinking.
a few years ago,
And he asked them to reformat the handouts
and an average of 300 tons
and then when you figure out that this works, you can join as well.
it isn t because they haven t been trying hard.
But half these classes were getting handouts that were formatted
so you can have a series of these neighborhoods.
or something with a zesty bounce, like Comic Sans italicized.
Now, these are really ugly fonts,
and they re difficult fonts to read.
But at the end of the semester,
and the students who d been asked to read the more difficult fonts,
it s tearing apart the Wikipedia community.
As you look forward,
and so they learned more.
OK, so Multi-Health Systems is a software company,
and Wales locked the entries on Kerry and Bush for most of 2004. 
I mean, you know what I m talking about.
you re having a conversation,
there are all kinds of other conversations going on in the restaurant,
you want to focus on what s important to you.
into the materials,
without five to 10 million units in the first run.
They had weak filters, they had porous filters --
but it had a layer of metal that was called  stretched metal. 
I want you to just stand exactly like this for me,
but we can t explain the decline in death sentences
Is this the right interpretation of evolutionary theory?
repeating across both space and time.
I can see the spiritual essence inside them,
So often they re rational and useful,
to have some real creative milestone in their lives,
It s the so-called Green Machine that we introduced with Kofi Annan
These distractions were actually grists to their creative mill.
They were able to think outside the box because their box was full of holes.
Could inmates live decent and meaningful lives,
he likes to say fish is the perfect protein.
the world s full of complicated problems --
Andy also talks about the fact that
OK, other organizations we ve been working with, UC Merced --
On October 15,
within this very strong grid,
So if you measure the precursor signal,
it s too hard.
Once we had followed our men all the way into their 80s,
So you have some kind of prototype
One is our Protestant work ethic
Now, this idea of marginal gains will eventually get you a good jet engine.
And it s been quite widely implemented in the world.
So you ll hear about it, for example, in high performance cycling,
violence around the world.
they re looking for these step-by-step gains.
That s a good way to solve a complicated problem.
But you know what would make it a better way?
But now we have a way
You add randomness,
early on in the process,
and I find this a pattern worth sharing, and it goes something like this.
doesn t happen by accident.
and that will tend to make the problem-solving work better.
around different alternatives.
So we have study after study now
and your problem-solving becomes more robust.
but it seems really obvious in retrospect.
but their accent, they are beginning not to be able to speak Kiribati properly.
you re going to need to cover something like
they re not using this support language,
alibis and evidence, witness statements and three suspects.
It is, in fact, enormously important.
And there were two treatments in this experiment.
How do you do it?
you did something, and after, you thought to yourself,
three friends and a stranger.
that you will spend there a full six hours,
Obviously I m going to say
And the side effects in that case occur in 50 percent of the patients.
Otherwise, it was disregarded
what happens if you do that at a really minimal level,
You can get your desires or goals.
doing the same thing on the left side.
the three friends and the stranger,
they had a 75 percent chance of finding the right answer.
That s quite a big leap in performance.
And we had a robotic device, a humanoid robot,
but how they felt about it.
So when Katherine Phillips interviewed the groups of four friends,
they had a nice time,
they also thought they d done a good job.
understanding it better,
it s actually rather difficult, it s rather awkward ...
It s my job to say that, but it s actually true.
They didn t think they d done a good job even though they had.
Probably the most important piece there
every movement scrutinized. 
Access Hollywood.
 Most Likely  -- right here in this window in real time.
the random move ...
these disruptions help us solve problems,
the later creation of fully developed writing
But we don t feel that they re helping us.
the ultimate enforcer
and so we resist.
And over the last 27 years, Seva s programs in 15 countries
So I want to talk about somebody
so your space can convert from exercise to a workplace,
His name is Brian Eno.
and we created a national energy strategy from the bottom up?
behind some of the great rock  n  roll albums of the last 40 years.
you re bringing that population right the way down.
and piles of emails that I haven t gone through.
that will allow us to get to escape velocity?
he s worked with Coldplay, he s worked with everybody.
in two years  time, in five years  time
In the majority of bubble universes,
(Applause)
It s his role to be the awkward stranger.
It s his role to tell them
that they have to play the unplayable piano.
is through this remarkable deck of cards --
I have my signed copy here -- thank you, Brian.
They re called The Oblique Strategies,
started to turn into individual choices not to have babies.
But there are new technologies and new products
Brian Eno will reach for one of the cards.
It s a process of academic inflation.
and environmental systems and high altitude medicine.
It s coming out starting in two months.
Yeah, everyone swap instruments -- Drummer on the piano --
Brilliant, brilliant idea.
It s already happened.
 Make a sudden, destructive, unpredictable action. Incorporate. 
and then stand back to choose which was the best.
Now, they ve proved their worth in album after album.
The musicians hate them.
You have to run fast so the devil can t catch up.
If you want to design a great flag,
He got so frustrated he started throwing beer cans across the studio.
The printing press gave us access to the written word.
working with Eno on David Bowie s  Lodger  album,
when it s essentially a piece of theater,
but also,
Carlos Alomar, 35 years later, now uses The Oblique Strategies.
And he tells his students to use The Oblique Strategies
because of these offshore platforms.
from astrophysics, to scientific experiments gone wrong,
they were just a list --
I say,  Terry, please, I m trying to fry an egg in here. 
meaning we try not to vote on the content of articles,
The list didn t work.
and so I invite all of you
that when Men s Health magazine put it on their cover,
Your eye would go down the list
and it would settle on whatever was the least disruptive,
For example, in addition to being an activist,
which of course misses the point entirely.
what they smelled like, what they sounded like. 
yes, we need to run the stupid experiments,
on that classification subtest.
we need to try to read the ugly fonts.
These things help us.
They help us solve problems,
not months or decades, or whatever. So we had the capability.
But also ...
we really need some persuasion if we re going to accept this.
who maybe most people have never heard of, Gillian Lynne.
whether it s sheer willpower,
whether it s the flip of a card
or whether it s a guilt trip from a German teenager,
There were the wooden boards on the sides of the hut
need to sit down and try and play the unplayable piano.
He said,  I remember the thylacines going around the hut
(Applause)
And it managed to get through my spam filter.
and they both had their right eye missing,
workers who collect recyclable materials for a living.
I m convinced that in 30 years,
after the liberation he continued
So his daddy is president for life of Equatorial Guinea,
Or good design is digital fonts that we use all the time
a smartphone [system] that enables
who here has paid money
She said,  Why don t you leave your number,
our commercial real estate industry,
And actually, she reacted exactly the way that I hoped that she would.
There were just a few thousand terrorists.
I am not here to inspire you.
and its sole purpose is to attract attention towards itself.
and that s important, because if you know
 Mary is a battered woman. 
being able to move your arm and leg?
essentially creating a home
and we ve used that to modulate
and effectively store it and tag it to something physical
And as he watched the disease unfold, he was able
because if that thing were somewhere else
And when they do, they bring with them
and always the same question:
I can assure you there s deception there.
If we work overnight, we should be paid for overtime.
and I do believe it s the most important question we need to answer,
the camera angle, you can do that,
This is the jaw-dropper.
Perhaps there are other things that we re just not thinking about yet,
(Applause)
and she makes you listen to them and think about them,
All I m doing is wasting their time.
and none of them wanted to report
and it s not about saving Jews. It s not about saving Muslims.
is that we think our pizza is significantly healthier
was the first mechanical computer in the modern sense.
in my head, so my own version.
Bob Chapman, who runs
and also for cardioscopes.
I said,  Winnie, I m really sorry to hear of this.
and he thought that its complexity
well, you have pre-obesity or
take a part of the chosen discipline that is sparsely inhabited.
(Applause)
This year, if you think about it,
have disease, take pill, kill something.
building infrastructure to get water to our cities.
among other reasons.
(Applause)
JF: You know, I was thinking this morning,
but the offer was exclusive, and only stood for a limited period of time.
and they were with their wives.
starting from the bottom and going through the top.
and with some very simple changes,
And the reply is,  It s what s so great about being Jewish.
in other ways.
How do you ask those who were once fighting
I was very happy with it; so was Chern.
on and on, have far less impact, less intensity and much less duration
and that she should be more careful
(Applause)
unkempt, probably ill-fed,
And for the small group of us who actually study this kind of data,
Did you win? You got it? You got it? Excellent!
Now this is going to be important for what I m going
Or maybe something else, something different and new?
And that s essentially our main cost.
In concrete terms,
But somewhere along the way, we got confused by our own conversation.
are very much the children of  68 --
Stewart Brand would put a micronuclear reactor
But if we give our new drugs to these worms at an early stage,
were the victims of reverse discrimination in the workplace.
Actually, we lived in a place called Snitterfield,
LD: From India, we traveled to East Africa,
(Laughter)
and that s why I said seven to 10 million there.
Now, if these were random doodles or decorations,
Why isn t the title of the show,  A Black Woman Got the Job? 
So we started a nonprofit foundation.
and no matter how many robots you introduce into the formation,
And the reason it s the wrong answer is because of progress.
Now, they differ a great deal
And again, in Peterborough, we started off
The question then is, how could that be possible
in which you make arguments about how old the Earth is.
I found fertility at birth, and I looked at total fertility rate per woman.
as they diverge in that pathway of learning
architecture restored to a cancer cell
And I hope that she is somewhere safe and healthy,
the driver s tendencies to break the law
so the stickers will hopefully help drivers see this shining thing
And so we waited a little while before we had our second child.
It is the place where we gather around
As the need for a solution became more urgent
because of these questions about identity,
Like, not that there s anything wrong with that,
and let people decide what they want to do with their money.
about 300 years ago.
Well, in California, we already recycle about 40 billion gallons a year
It was sort of a hollow in the ground.
She said,  I want to bring every good thing to this child
just to see, to gauge the level of change.
They need me. They need us.
Now what s interesting is that
to slow down the aging process
This isn t a design, OK?
He thought they might like him if he kept his light dim
Whether you re gay or not,
to figure out in an organic way
And then we decided to work with society.
When men share housework and childcare,
by virtue of the fact that somebody tells you when your birthday is,
I am no designer, nope, no way.
of something that you re all very familiar with: an ant.
unfortunate or even dangerous, and they certainly can be.
who s going to talk about the crisis of democracy
But I know that it s there.
And understanding contradictions that occur in nature
And over the course of nine months
Barnaby Jack
At this distance,
and his crowning glory was the building
Some astronomers focus their time and energy on finding planets
And finally, to make these things really functional,
That means that despite corporate training programs,
And here s why that s important:
rather than what is.
that control whether a planet can support life.
Take the planet Venus.
A couple of months earlier, they had found a body,
that is fueled by those trips to the mailbox,
You get that, and it s like a slap in the face.
From these lessons from our own solar system,
is crucial to its climate and potential to host life.
We don t know what the atmospheres of these planets are like
because the planets are so small and dim compared to their stars
For example, one of the closest planets that could support surface water --
such a glamorous name, right, nice phone number for a name --
from the point of view of the five senses.
So that s more than 100 trillion miles.
Trying to measure the atmospheric composition
They said,  You know what? Indians don t do innovation. 
OK, now imagine that car is 100 trillion miles away,
So I use computer models
Here s an artist s concept of the planet Kepler-62f,
You cook it with rice and chicken, and you flip it upside-down.
so most of the girls kind of fight
Ice on a planet s surface is also important for climate.
and we grow stuff and we feed our teachers.
That s why the iceberg in this photo looks so blue.
if no one bought your product,
Was that with only one and himself could his heart divide,
You can see the baby s sleeping, but there s not too much information there.
But so does everything else.
Using climate models to explore
where we have, for the first time, the approval by the FDA
as a way of establishing and maintaining
who loves to wear makeup and read fashion magazines,
then we are condemning a whole cohort of people --
My organization, Rising Stargirls,
and you can trade it across all these social media,
They aren t told by their boss
You can take what you believe in
to a first approximation, I watch people argue.
 Dear Drugsheaven,  I wrote,
So, I m an artist.
Wait, wait. What?
And I d just come back from living in Spain for a while,
So you see, Roy Price is a senior executive with Amazon Studios.
In other words: Are there processes, mechanisms, phenomena
you know:  Poems are made by fools like me, but only God can make a tree. 
because it s something we don t want to hear.
globalization tsunami that s about to wreck all our lives
that are on the very right end of this curve here.
and we focused on fighting a war
With the rising sea, they say,  Well, you can move back. 
that may have been used to catch slippery prey, like fish.
the most fuel efficiently.
300 books altogether on purpose and career and all this,
It would be easier for other people to wear the helmet
then to sit and to stand and to walk,
You felt upset.
That is a huge challenge.
But you have to maintain it.
They do it by bouncing their butts together,
because it makes my life work a whole lot easier.
this very complex ECM
(Laughter)
I d like to share three sets of examples, starting with
So you could imagine they were very excited about it.
penicillin and a vaccine for tuberculosis.
And if by some chance you haven t seen that in your store yet,
But I mean, why would they respond to a 14-year-old, anyway?
as represented in the sitcom  The IT Crowd. 
We call it agile aerospace,
but opens up to the good light from the sky.
Performance is a mental and physical construction
and then you try to figure out what you can do
at twice human artery pressure.
It s already with us.
and how I went to a YMCA camp, Christian camp,
which is, effectively, recognition.
another executive did manage to land a top show using data analysis,
Audience: Amen.
But this is not the Europe we know today.
and we injected it into the embryos.
of comments posted online
and doing a thousand trials a day
So, my civic center colleagues and I made a tool kit,
and we found that cassava is indeed grown in Haiti,
Hurt, sadness and anger flooded through me.
Oh, they have a degree from Harvard on the wall?
And if we truly listen to one another,
and then it works beautifully for one of them,
and to me, it was just an obvious thing --
But if I wanted you to look at my right hand,
but what we don t really notice are these problems in cities.
is precisely what is missing
For 0.01 percent of this money you could have put WiFi on the trains,
I remember one day, Michal,
was when we did side-by-side comparisons with wood charcoal,
Could we be manufacturing from foodstuffs in the future?
don t really suffocate, but the oxygen that they produce
the National Museum of Science in London,
by hiding in a truck.
increased corporate disclosure, so you can now track assets across borders.
I tell people I used to be a light bulb, but now I m a laser --
And he never expected this.
and that night I also thought of what else I could do
my decision about birth control had nothing to do with promiscuity.
for over a year.
Now, if you re looking at me and feeling sorry,
I love data.
This is a photo of him, and when you see that photo,
With so different incomes, it s almost the same drop
They thought about it for a while.
Snoop Doggy Dogg covers this song
(Applause)
(Laughter) (Applause)
broke the law.
and that tool is the brain.
to how much money they can make,
and that s where we made our most important discovery,
Most of the sand on the Moon,
 This is what the data tells us. 
which says to boys and young men
became increasingly important as the delivery of food
But when it s backlit, it s color.
and we will have click-through purchases of offsets.
tend to be pretty smart people.
and it threatens key organizational interests.
Oh, they ve run out.
It s based on furniture typologies, but that s not the end motivation.
but I believe it s still on us to make the decisions
but I can have four of these on my finger,
But the guys at United Parachute Technologies came up with this idea,
to be an expert in what you re doing
It was ridiculous. I couldn t get a mobile phone plan
is going to go on to develop autism.
Over our lifetimes,
stood up in front of the Prussian Academy of Sciences in Berlin
have been my friends for a very long time, too.
and even more worried that we don t think about them.
one of these two phrases come up:
they need our sympathy. They really do. (Laughter)
quantum mechanics,
our understanding of the universe.
Only about 250.
but in the hands of suicide bombers,
But the first time that I took my book out of my suitcase,
To understand the pace of our own government thinking on this,
Narrator: When he arches his back, he gains altitude.
But when we look around us, we see we live in a universe full of interesting stuff,
why does all this interesting stuff exist?
flying by the seat of my ass.
I chose the gun.
that is cut right from under the poorest.
what happens when we die,
and blending into each other
 How about you put those pills in the drawer while we text? 
And they go back and forth for a while.
and so we dealt with that by making
If we go back 11 years,
But then something interesting happened.
The first one --
more or less intelligent design --
staying right under the radar.
And the Higgs field is a little bit like a magnetic field,
in a ring like this,
We ve got an amazing suit that was made by ILC Dover.
The genocide happened in 1994,
and no atoms could form and there would be no us.
But there is something deeply mysterious about the Higgs field.
They severed her head, put it on top of her computer
It has two redundant oxygen tanks.
and I had tens of thousands of people reading about my life every day.
which makes streets even more desolate and unsafe,
The marathon grew.
And you might say,
and it s going to be out in space later this year.
of this kind of fine-tuning of a dangerous number,
(Laughter)
How that flows through me and how that comes out
if we could introduce this charcoal-making technology there.
driven by a mysterious repulsive force called dark energy.
which they used ordinarily for their fuel.
much less likely to take outsize risks --
Now, if you use good old quantum mechanics to work out
So we can handle severity, not chronological.
Of course, it s a very short-term-ist strategy; it s a losing battle,
Alone with my thoughts, I constructed intricate fantasies
something where all details actually dissolve in infinity.
In March of 2001 --
In fact, it s been called the worst prediction in physics,
So this is the second of those dangerous numbers,
(Laughter)
might provide a solution.
Instead of taking a single, high quality image,
and doesn t have to be as busy,
They are observed by the other people,
I first came across this study
we have this opportunity
Thursday night is illicit drug use.
So we have very diverse contributors
with different laws of physics.
39 percent of the students have special needs,
But others actually turned this on its head
Out of a population of 150,000,
So to do this, I ve spent a lot of time
they want to bury deeper feelings.
crossing the highway,
I say we don t,
can get building and get creative.
will help us create a future that s not only richer
no one ever said they wanted extra-chunky.
What the global delivery model allows is, it allows you
that we still haven t figured out.
It also changed the objective nature
And what you can really think of XML in this case
and is content with a yes or no answer.
We will need to invest in the new technologies.
And trade is another important incentive against violence.
And they did. They donated land where we built the girls  school.
why would people who have no health insurance
It s because our friendships --
that gender equality is not a zero-sum game, but a win-win.
And I ll just give you my personal story.
We ve seen that DNA learns in a sense,
There are countries in the world right now
to address the challenges of the 20th century.
of slashing budgets and publishers in crisis,
is the tiny village of Elle, close to Lista.
(Alarm clock)
There was a recent survey of millennials
And secondly, because what I m going to say is true,
We have codes and standards that tell us that the lights should be so much Lux
those pictures are almost impossible to get.
until he committed suicide by shooting himself through the heart.
♪ Can t remember when ♪
and more disruptive ones,
they include education, sometimes can be just education
our current goal.
The Harvard Study of Adult Development
For 75 years, we ve tracked the lives of 724 men,
year after year, asking about their work, their home lives, their health,
The victims of this paralysis are the people of sub-Saharan Africa
Everything about Mormonism determined what you wore,
started walking towards the public.
But the real issue is there s no food at home.
this study has survived.
The problem is that many people start to believe
to indicate the presence of cancer.
most of them in their 90s.
And we are now beginning to study
So you tell me why, in our age of science,
politics, law, civic life.
was filled with danger,
to make many friends.
And that scuba is exactly this system,
If one day, a person sick with the measles appears in this city
is just tell you a little bit
The founders of this study
is that it allows us to think about illness as well
We received death threats.
About half a million have made the crossing
Tipper was saying,  One more burger with fries! 
That s the kind of thing we re going to experience
We interview them in their living rooms.
We need women to work. We need working women to have babies.
(Applause)
Most probably, one of humanity s greatest achievements
The reporters called me up and they --
This is a scan through the human forearm.
At that time in the United States,
Well, the lessons aren t about wealth or fame or working harder and harder.
He meant back beyond that mountain of trash,
of the dead.
It was destroyed before it ever existed.
And I started to kill my blog slowly.
like these people here giving aid to these people here.
So what I m going to do is share with you my lessons.
So this video illustrates the basic idea.
is that the Bush-Kerry articles
And we know that you can be lonely in a crowd
and you can be lonely in a marriage,
Amy, can you tell us what the game was,
was the best moment of the day.
It turns out that living in the midst of conflict is really bad for our health.
(Laughter)
and I never move.
due to some physical limitations I won t go into.
And when we gathered together everything we knew about them
and eventually they filter down into the abyss
wars between developed countries are no longer commonplace.
So my page is on quite a few volunteers  watch lists,
only had to spend three days in silence
I didn t know anything when the earthquake happened,
It s the largest company in Tanzania.
it was after midnight, I was in a taxi driving through Times Square,
AT: This is our wish.
Take, for example, the incidents of suicide baiting.
but I will go buy a wetsuit and I will swim. 
something we can get
They can generate income from this.
about the normal structure and function of our bodies.
Which means we can reverse the formula.
This is a new chair which should come on the market in September.
they meet more often,
Here s an interesting property.
were what they needed to go after to have a good life.
But over and over, over these 75 years, our study has shown
so you can mount the correct response.
and understanding the systems that make this world. 
Well, the possibilities are practically endless.
Most of the social rules and the methods of work
my last seven-and-a-half minutes, on step one;
I ve got a memory problem; that s why I m here.
So, I mentioned earlier, people type  ASDFASDF  --
that would like to live in the city, and very comfortably.
There is only time for loving,
And in the particular example we have here,
The brain is an amazing and complex organ.
but with a few small steps and a very steep learning curve,
Teaming up with a marine biologist and a local dive center,
I did not know what they were laughing at, but I wanted in.
And then this incredible thing happened.
So the king of England, Alfred the Great,
It smelled awful.
that they had, and I wanted others to experience this wonderland as well.
In 2009, I moved to Mexico and started by casting local fisherman.
This grew to a small community,
We started asking ourselves questions.
And then finally, to an underwater museum,
with over 500 living sculptures.
Gardening, it seems, is not just for greenhouses.
We ve since scaled up the designs:
(Laughter)
to now currently in Lanzarote,
because if you re sitting there yourself
a long-lasting pH-neutral cement provides a stable and permanent platform.
there are a 100,000 working vessels on the sea —
We position them down current from natural reefs
The formations are all configured so that they aggregate fish
and the last 20 years of labor-productivity growth
Even this VW Beetle has an internal living habitat
Now, how did these cells, all with the same genetic material,
So why exhibit my work in the ocean?
who is a cosmologist and artist who seeks relation
The ocean is the most incredible exhibition space
a unique timeless quality
But over the years,
the sculptures, they belong to the sea.
of even the most basic human rights,
Sponges look like veins across the faces.
Staghorn coral morphs the form.
are exactly the same.
to starve to death before reaching land.
(Laughter)
I think there is no doubt that the sector
The deepest red I ve ever seen in my life lives underwater.
Gorgonian fans oscillate with the waves.
Purple sponges breathe water like air.
And grey angelfish glide silently overhead.
And the amazing response we ve had to these works
tells me that we ve managed to plug into something really primal,
That s the kind of thought that could lead a person
and having a little nickel-sized cone of vision,
I m standing here today on this boat in the middle of the ocean,
One of your students must have been passing by,
But let me give you an example of a profoundly carcinogenic environment.
And I think this is for a reason,
or at least I hope it is.
that we need to start thinking about our oceans, too.
for just about the entire postwar period.
So on my RSS feed, I saw this thing about -
and listen quietly,
we reassemble it in a new configuration,
when we experimentally manipulated classrooms.
So why are we all here today in this room?
as being the other side of the same coin.
that call out to us, and in my experience that s certainly the case.
like the Himalayas or the La Sagrada Família,
who only had enough money to feed her baby,
we understand their importance.
But in order to do that,
which is a term that totally drives us bonkers.
And I m one who loves high tech and low tech.
It might take a few days to get there,
If someone was to throw an egg at the Sistine Chapel,
And so I took this picture, and I handed it to him.
and now I was completely blind
180 days of the year.
white people and black people are more historically familiar to one another.
And we don t want to stop in Grenada,
in Cancun or the Bahamas.
in central London, right in front of the Houses of Parliament,
putting a stark message about climate change
there will be 10,000 who march across that state,
Because for me, this is just the beginning of the mission.
And they will stay there.
Say you re a 14-year-old kid from the city,
or an aquarium,
we are also invited to do workshops,
So let s think big and let s think deep.
that not only do we take advantage of amazing creativity
But I thought you might be interested
as delicate, precious places,
worthy of our protection.
Our oceans are sacred.
That s universal.
I remembered an old man
But what about natural forces?
Coral reefs are farmers.
and we wouldn t have a disease
That was easy. OK.
In fact, in the last few years, there s been an explosion
into a world war.
There s nothing we know about more directly.
And not only that.
It was in 2009 that my friend
(Laughter)
Alzheimer s care costs 200 billion dollars every year.
The first model -- let s call it the dialectical model --
And so to think that I had found my way, to found a career that takes me --
and in schools.
in the way that we talk about ourselves
at the edge, the outer edge, of that network.
or we can use the chemical information
the explosive pain of regeneration.
His parents think sometimes
So, he made a filtrate, he took this filter
We ask half of them to tell us,
JC: After Nepal, we traveled to India.
and usually at that point,
maybe somebody else does. 
we need to reduce bycatch, which is the accidental
I started thinking about it
It s familiarizing ourselves with the present moment.
his country,
the number of people who we re sentencing to death on an annual basis
We have a romantic ideal in which we turn to one person
on and offline,
that let us tease out some very important aspects of this.
But with this in mind, we organized this expedition,
until I left home to go to university.
that most doctors don t like talking about,
and individuals and small groups have the advantage.
Even if it s Lake Tahoe, it s fresh water, totally unfounded fear,
But when you give people the sense of hope,
But in order to expand that, you need a river,
The next big issue, deforestation.
with their abdomens up in the air.
we saw yet another lesbian couple holding hands.
never been challenged to this degree.
a flock of birds.
It s a cognitive illusion
very concerned about the body parts they thought they d need in the afterlife,
that allow us to make things online.
Within two minutes, three people pass two-year-old Wang Yue by.
Why has the movement of refugees spiked so fast in the last six months?
AG: Well, I think, basically, what triggered this huge increase
I ve got some of the pieces in my pocket here.
but slowly growing, and all of a sudden we had this massive increase
It s like every year it s the last minute
read critically, write consciously,
as I ve explored this nocturnal world.
CA: Which of you was the key instigator here,
So I said,  Forget that. I m the new Governor.
Because you know what to do about the protests.
I felt like I had been pieced back together
picture-in-picture, then Popcorn lets it push
hundreds of portraits were made.
Together with 15 of my friends --
and yet Europe looked totally unprepared.
AG: Well, unprepared because divided,
It was fully 25 years before the British and medical --
This is Geoffrey Hinton here on the left-hand side.
Among the most frequent responses
energy. I need, with my body,
coming into any market,
is that our mind s eye
And the obvious thing to look at is the sun.
or something of the sort, if you count all refugees.
So I don t think it s fair to say how many we can take.
in order to modify them to represent
And Europe has not been able to do so,
Man: Get in the kitchen! Woman: No! Help!
instead of less Europe.
Thank you very much.
We will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun.
very simple language, beautifully typeset.
AG: But, if I may, on these:
if you want something to be affordable it s got to be one-size-fits-all.
 This could work somehow.  (Laughter)
or, if not, maybe telling us that somewhere, independently,
and I m singing,
of the industry and the regulators
And my kids, trained and certified --
using their companies
BG: So, if you look at the global situation not only at Europe --
is species are going to have to migrate
His girlfriend s uncle bought it from a used car auction
AG: Well, 86 percent of the refugees in the world
and I looked up -- oh yeah, you can have lots of fun here --
when there s no director present, when they just have
and it is a technology story.
in the whole of evidence-based medicine.
And, in general,
and, you know, you could consider this like, I don t know,
has been for borders to be open.
I m going to show you a graph that shows up
but you mentioned the cutting of funding and the vouchers
If we can find a way of becoming positive in the present,
But that is clearly insufficient to address the needs of the people
and its incredible facility to create this platform
For instance, Lebanon and Jordan are middle-income countries.
They have millions of refugees there,
also have learning disabilities.
and an appetite for education and social engagement
And, of course, if you look at today s situation
This is what the code on your phone looks like,
who belonged to that republic of dreams
It did not take long after the rise
Each one originates in a particular part of the body,
But that s not going to be the only answer.
could it be that we are heading towards or maybe in
and reported to a poll for further political analyzing.
the men are happier and healthier.
Daesh and al-Nusra, al-Qaeda, and all those other groups
multi-religious, multicultural,
AG: In the sense that, I mean, for many people the first reaction
not understanding that the terrorist problem in Europe is largely homegrown.
(Applause)
RL: They do. They do, in the sense of,
Thank you. (Applause)
there s that metaphor, there s turtles all the way.
AG: Well, look:
In 2005, we were helping one million people go back home
In 2005, we had about 38 million people displaced by conflict in the world.
At that time, we had had, recently,
BG: Commissioner, thank you for the job you do.
As the highest military commander of the Netherlands,
Does extinction have to be forever?
So there s a terribly weird freaky side to me,
and if only my parents had never left Taiwan,
And during a pause in my conversation with Katya,
Lily Tomlin: Hand me one of those waters,
is punishing me or judging me.
who is most famous for reinventing spaghetti sauce.
We have a very limited --
to transship our bodies and our minds
JF: You ain t seen nothing yet.
PM: So tell me, what do you look for in a friend?
who s audacious,
to make floor-to-ceiling windows and unobstructed views,
and who thinks I m worthwhile.
(Laughter)
until I died.
I exist because I have my women friends. They --
You re one of them.
became consumed by taking care of me the best they knew how.
(Laughter)
You know, they make me stronger, they make me smarter,
they make me braver.
They tap me on the shoulder when I might be in need of course-correcting.
whose only rule is to try to keep access to the milk
(Laughter)
JF: No, I do, I include you in that, because listen, you know --
(Laughing)
(Laughter)
you can learn a lot these days --
and we call it  Dove  because satellites are typically named
this was not something that occurred 500 years ago.
what do you do to keep your friendships vital and alive?
Well, I had a lot of time to think during those eight hours and no sleep.
We do a lot of good things in the intelligence community,
And they took the briquettes back to MIT so that they could test them.
Now, Manya, when she encountered
(Laughter)
They need my support,
because most of my friends are writers, or activists, or actors,
and you re all three ...
JF: Do you do emojis?
LT: That s embarrassing. JF: I m really into emojis.
And I ll talk about how I ve looked to combine
Hi, Joe. Thanks for joining us today, great.
from the moment of their creation to the moment of my experience.
that used something that was readily available on the local level.
(Applause)
JF: Such a purist.
So she gives a guest lecture for me when I teach.
Well, we looked at the tissue under the microscope.
from a chemical point of view,
creating educational materials, sharing them with the world,
There s been very little research done on us,
On the other hand, it is also a society with a deeply patriarchal system,
(Laughter)
LT: This is really exciting, and you all will be interested in this.
are less likely to develop impairments --
with acting out of fear --
They rise or fall, they live or die, as one.
And I began to daydream.
After Belgrade, where I was born,
TR: Thanks for the interaction on a high level there.
the researchers found
as much as smoking or being overweight.
JF: And there s something else, too --
LT: I ve said my part, so ...
Because they only -- for years, decades --
they only researched men when they were trying to understand stress,
But when I started on this back in 2007,
because anyone who s involved in a school scale back,
Which is a feel-good, calming, stress-reducing hormone.
Which is also increased when we re with our women friends.
And I do think that s one reason why we live longer.
I ve been sort of looking across time,
LT: Well, when you and I and Dolly made  9 to 5  ...
JF: Oh --
we see, temperature s too high.
Here she is, like Hollywood royalty,
I m like a tough kid from Detroit,
to write  dyer. 
we laughed -- we must have added at least a decade onto our lifespans.
for the rest of their lives without the possibility of parole,
but there s no chance you ll get the avian flu.
When he said the word  species,  he was revealing his worldview.
And the briquettes crumbled a little bit
we re talking directly to the part of the brain
that women friends are not just a social act,
that s where most people assume --
Do they add something spiritual to your lives?
And the third brain system is attachment:
only it kind of sounds like a woman. 
we applied it to our Nanopatches
Climate change has affected the world for a long period of time,
nobody has time to sit in front of you. 
OK? We don t want to mass migrate at some point in time.
entitled  The 10 Weirdest Things
These three distinct elements, together,
and guidance counselors to be there on Mondays.
I find that I shed tears a lot with my intimate friends.
LT: And you know one of you is going to go soon.
So, multi-touch interaction research is a very active field right now in HCI.
And I always think, when women talk about their friendships,
that men always look a little mystified.
and my father didn t get to see me standing
and that included sheep.
(Laughter)
are people who came from the same sort of dysfunctional family that Will did.
Yarmouk is being described as the worst place to live
which are used by the village for different committee meetings.
I had so many words in my mind,
back into an ellipse.
They re revelatory.
I mean how many times have I asked you,  Am I doing OK? 
and disquieting question:
Shadi and his sisters got out.
(Laughter)
JF: But I mean, we ask questions like that
So the question I m often asked in companies is,
And then about seven years ago, we had a research student from Australia.
And people can get RSS feeds --
whereas men s friendships are more side-by-side.
I mean, that s the general, conventional thought.
They would rather go off in their man cave and watch a game or hit golf balls,
or talk about sports, or hunting, or cars or have sex.
JF: You meant -- LT: They talk about sex.
by terrific relationships with their children.
genes turned on and off
(Laughter)
Or is there something else?
But there is something more that we can do
And he puts his fists up in the most insane show of victory I ve ever seen.
gazing into their mother s eyes,
When the mother looks away, they could see the dismay on the child,
So the question is why, as they grow older, does that change?
Well, the last thing I really love about insects
One paper in 1981 found that in 10 out of 21 threatened suicide attempts,
Most of the time, you want to print one copy of your document,
The specialist can dive in deep and implement ideas,
but also, as I just pointed out a moment ago,
it s what makes us strong.
It s not that we re better than men,
we just don t have our masculinity to prove.
I know I frequently confront walls
JF: That s a Gloria Steinem quote.
So we can express our humanity -- LT: I know who Gloria Steinem is.
JF: I know you know who she is, but I think it s a --
(Laughter)
Oh, that s it.
We re not better than men, we just don t have our masculinity to prove.
And that s really important.
Let me tell you something: you know who you are
JF: Women s friendships are like a renewable source of power.
precipitously, tenfold, fiftyfold, as you age.
female friendships are just a hop to our sisterhood,
and sisterhood can be a very powerful force,
indicating how fields relate to each other.
the things that humans desperately need.
and by May, she had graduated
most of us would be willing to do just about anything.
and I m getting there.
Thank you very much.
I have a corresponding milestone to robust human rejuvenation.
JF: Well, women are the fastest growing demographic in the world,
especially older women.
their own rules, their own laws
and that it must be central and active.
And we need to do it soon.
And one of the things that we need to do --
and we can do it as women --
for one thing, we kind of set the consumer standards.
We need to consume less.
by somebody who s thought a lot about changes
and when we buy things, we need to buy things that are made locally,
with a blog that he writes for twice a week.
We are the ones that need to get off the grid.
We need to make ourselves independent from fossil fuels.
One, it s diverse.
But this journey has only just begun,
cause they are --
to solve them working together.
we are going to go straight to the four-plus-degree scenario.
of stem cell lines. It s genetically arrayed.
where all countries tend to use their money
LT: Oh, boy.
JF: And not drill in the Alberta tar sands --
Probably Thailand, Brazil and Nigeria
That we will be --
there will be more democracy and more jobs and more well-being,
and it s women that are going to lead the way.
LT: Maybe we have the momentum to start a third-wave feminist movement
It s because some family planning programs
transparent, so you can see the people in there.
but we join together that way,
that s the only thing that can pop out the other end of the devil.
Aristotle said --
most people --
OK, the second big enabler, and this is where I told a big lie.
Because they thought that friendships should be between equals
and women were not considered equal --
that s the cosmic question, it sort of rhymes
LT: No, exactly. That shows you just how limited Aristotle was.
That s what happens if you get inspired by the street lamp first,
We should stop watching,
It s like, you know, men do need women now.
The planet needs women.
The US Constitution needs women.
We are not even in the Constitution.
JF: You re talking about the Equal Rights Amendment.
it s caused by something similar to an electrical impulse.
Justice Ginsberg said something like --
every constitution that s been written since the end of World War II
but ours does not.
on a hot day like today.
Very, very mild --
You can spray paint it. You can do anything you want.
You know, there s a popular trope out there
And at the time, I was working on the history
it would lift all boats, not just women.
but those skills of thinking creatively,
How to be friends,
how to think about our power in different ways,
Most people go and buy the Aston Martin.
I built this.
the suicide bomber is all in little pieces,
and even if they occasionally disagree.
Thank you.
of education without borders,
(Applause)
JF: Thanks.
LT: Thank you.
JF: Thank you.
(Applause)
So, I have an overlooked but potentially lucrative
investment opportunity for you.
They use these to design with and they design for them,
and in other contexts it s wrong.
by a ratio of around three to one.
or gathering to mate or breed,
and they start at around 3,900 pounds.
And they re projected to achieve about 40 percent growth.
The biggest advantage is that this is a market with continuous demand.
Now, this is a real proposition,
tied to my head with this elastic, tattered band,
because his hair is always completely unkempt like this
I m an architect and urban designer,
and leaking radiation.
I ve been looking at approaches to death and dying
and at how they ve shaped our cities and the buildings within them.
So in the summer, I did my first exhibition
on death and architecture in Venice,
and it was called  Death in Venice. 
And because death is a subject
that many of us find quite uncomfortable to talk about,
the exhibition was designed to be quite playful,
so that people would literally engage with it.
If you re a washer, then you use water
it was a revelation, a discovery,
is given over to death.
As you wave your hand across the map,
the name of the piece of real estate -- the building or the cemetery --
is revealed.
And those white shapes that you can see,
they re all of the hospitals and hospices
and mortuaries and cemeteries in the city.
In fact, the majority are cemeteries.
We wanted to show that, even though death and burial are things
And I said, yes, I would do that,
they re all around us, and they re important parts of our cities.
So about half a million people die in the UK each year,
and of those, around a quarter will want to be buried.
that psychiatry is a pseudo-science that can t be trusted? 
is running out of burial space,
especially in the major cities.
And the Greater London Authority has been aware of this for a while,
and the main causes are population growth,
the fact that existing cemeteries are almost full.
in our coastal areas of the countries,
and there s also development pressure -- people want to use that same land
to build houses or offices or shops.
So they came up with a few solutions.
They were like, well, maybe we can reuse those graves after 50 years.
Or maybe we can bury people, like, four deep,
so that four people can be buried in the same plot,
and we can make more efficient use of the land that way,
that things became doable and sustainable and viable.
in the near future.
But, traditionally, cemeteries haven t been taken care of
by the local authority.
In fact, the surprising thing is that there s no legal obligation
on anyone in the UK to provide burial space.
Traditionally, it s been done by private and religious organizations,
like churches and mosques and synagogues.
But there s also occasionally been a for-profit group
who has wanted to get in on the act.
This is Frank Drake s electronics in 1960.
and that high cost,
so that the temperature may be just right for life.
So, actually, if you want to go out and start your own cemetery,
you kind of can.
There was this couple in South Wales,
and they had a farmhouse and a load of fields next to it,
and they wanted to develop the land.
and I departed from Felixstowe,
the name of the file as such uploaded to the website.
but the council said no.
And then they wanted to make a fish farm
and again the council said no.
Then they hit on the idea of making a cemetery
and they calculated that by doing this,
they could increase the value of their land
So first, we know that the voice is changing
But just to come back to this idea of making profit from cemeteries,
like, it s kind of ludicrous, right?
The thing is that the high cost of those burial plots
is actually very misleading.
They look like they re expensive,
but that cost reflects the fact that you need to maintain the burial plot --
and then tried the synthesized molecule on the males
That means it s very difficult to make money from cemeteries.
And it s the reason that normally they re run by the council
or by a not-for-profit group.
But anyway, the council granted these people permission,
and they re now trying to build their cemetery.
but in leather, it s the main building block.
If I want to build something in the UK,
the more you see Licklider s vision everywhere.
You might get impeached for that.
Right?
or if I want to extend my home
or, you know, if I have a shop and I want to convert it into an office,
that a cat has a round face, a chubby body,
and I submit them to the council for permission.
And they ll look at things like how it fits in the surroundings.
or see how our buildings and structures sway in the wind and react to forces.
But they ll also think about things like what impact is it going to have
on the local environment?
And they ll be thinking about things like,
is this thing going to cause pollution
or is there going to be a lot of traffic
that wants to go to this thing that I ve built?
But also good things.
So some of this is physical, right?
that local people would like to use?
And they ll weigh up the advantages and the disadvantages
Now, I show all this to you because,
But what if I ve got a piece of land
the light, the light intensity, the dose to cure,
Well, then -- actually, I don t need permission from anyone!
There s actually almost no regulation in the UK around burial,
going from one patch of forest to patch of forest.
like not polluting rivers or groundwater.
So actually, if you want to go and make your own mini-cemetery,
Here s what happened:
natural predilections,
Well, if you re an aristocratic family and you have a large estate,
then there s a chance that you ll have a mausoleum on it,
and you ll bury your family there.
But the really weird thing
is that you don t need to have a piece of land of a certain size
before you re allowed to start burying people on it.
And so that means that, technically,
this applies to, like, the back garden of your house in the suburbs.
(Laughter)
So what if you wanted to try this yourself at home?
As I said to you,
we live with this latent but very palpable fear
So, the first thing that they tell you
is that you need to have a certificate of burial before you can go ahead --
you re not allowed to just murder people and put them under the patio.
(Laughter)
They also tell you that you need to keep a record of where the grave is.
But that s pretty much it for formal requirements.
Now, they do warn you that your neighbors might not like this,
but, legally speaking, there s almost nothing that they can do about it.
from my normal perception of reality,
and how much money you might be able to make,
and all the rich little fairy boys decided to sponsor a child
to drop by 20 percent.
Although, actually, it s more likely
that no one will want to buy your house at all after that.
So what I find fascinating about this
is the fact that it kind of sums up many of our attitudes towards death.
In the UK, and I think that the figures across Europe are probably similar,
There s a possibility of this being implemented
about their wishes around death,
and even for people over 75,
only 45 percent of people have ever talked about this.
And the reasons that people give ... you know,
they think that their death is far off
My daughter never wears a watch, my daughter Kate, who s 20.
So let s say you ve used a peer-to-peer lending platform
Now let s look at what happens
there are other people out there who are taking care of things for us.
like burying a death, for example,
and there s people like funeral directors
We decoded our genome.
But when it comes to our cities
and thinking about how death fits in our cities,
there s much less regulation and design and thought
than we might imagine.
So we re not thinking about this,
but all of the people we imagine are thinking about it --
by using technology as part of the body.
Thank you.
(Applause)
It would be nice to be objective in life,
a species poised between gaining the stars and losing the planet we call home.
and the people were helpless
our knowledge of how Earth fits within the context of our universe.
NASA s Kepler mission has discovered
thousands of potential planets around other stars,
if we are interested in maximizing the welfare of our citizens,
Kepler is a space telescope
that measures the subtle dimming of stars as planets pass in front of them,
blocking just a little bit of that light from reaching us.
Kepler s data reveals planets  sizes
as well as their distance from their parent star.
Together, this helps us understand whether these planets are small and rocky,
like the terrestrial planets in our own Solar System,
During the first three years of life, the brain grows
In turn, this provides clues as to whether these planets that we discover
you also start to learn how to shape the world.
Unfortunately, at the same time as we re discovering this treasure trove
of potentially habitable worlds,
our own planet is sagging under the weight of humanity.
2014 was the hottest year on record.
Glaciers and sea ice that have been with us for millennia
are now disappearing in a matter of decades.
and we had a drink,
are rapidly outpacing our ability to alter their course.
But I m not a climate scientist, I m an astronomer.
I study planetary habitability as influenced by stars
with the hopes of finding the places in the universe
where we might discover life beyond our own planet.
You could say that I look for choice alien real estate.
Now, as somebody who is deeply embedded in the search for life in the universe,
I can tell you that the more you look for planets like Earth,
the more you appreciate our own planet itself.
Each one of these new worlds invites a comparison
If I had the vocal capacity I would
By the end of my presentation, you will have seen
actually brings essential limiting nutrients from the depths
Mars is small and rocky, and though it s a bit far from the Sun,
it might be considered a potentially habitable world
But they also are very used to having to deal with patients,
Indeed, it s possible that Mars was habitable in the past,
but it needs consumers to buy into it.
Our rovers, like Curiosity, crawl across its surface,
and even people at the Apple Store,
Orbiters like the MAVEN mission sample the Martian atmosphere,
trying to understand how Mars might have lost its past habitability.
Private spaceflight companies now offer not just a short trip to near space
and then he started to smell really, really bad.
But though these Martian vistas
resemble the deserts of our own home world,
places that are tied in our imagination to ideas about pioneering and frontiers,
about half a mile, we came over the crest of this hill,
Mars is a pretty terrible place to live.
to manage the distribution of their malicious code.
the deserts of our own planet,
places that are lush by comparison with Mars.
Even in the driest, highest places on Earth,
the air is sweet and thick with oxygen
if you will, my ideas,
I worry -- I worry that this excitement about colonizing Mars and other planets
carries with it a long, dark shadow:
who can work with people under the pressure
that Mars will be there to save us from the self-inflicted destruction
of the only truly habitable planet we know of, the Earth.
As much as I love interplanetary exploration,
I deeply disagree with this idea.
There are many excellent reasons to go to Mars,
but for anyone to tell you that Mars will be there to back up humanity
is like the captain of the Titanic telling you that the real party
I had never had to deal with a blackout.
(Laughter)
(Applause)
Thank you.
But the goals of interplanetary exploration and planetary preservation
are not opposed to one another.
No, they re in fact two sides of the same goal:
I did a quick search of my email inbox
Almost everybody knows this,
They re just closer to home.
that you saw, and we made vegetable beds
out of hostile, inhospitable spaces here on Earth,
perhaps we can meet the needs of both preserving our own environment
and moving beyond it.
has been that venture capitalists, investors, real estate developers,
Fermi s paradox.
How does a slogan become a movement?
that our universe has been around for a very long time
So one of the first things we needed to do was figure out what a cause of action was,
we should have found evidence for alien life by now.
So where are they?
Well, one possible solution to Fermi s paradox
is that, as civilizations become technologically advanced enough
to consider living amongst the stars,
they lose sight of how important it is
to safeguard the home worlds that fostered that advancement to begin with.
It is hubris to believe that interplanetary colonization alone
and I was moving my head around
It s a performance venue.
can work together.
If we truly believe in our ability
to bend the hostile environments of Mars for human habitation,
then we should be able to surmount the far easier task of preserving
the habitability of the Earth.
But after I grew up and went to college,
HI-SEAS is a NASA-funded planetary surface analogue
So I get off the plane, and I come to TED.
♪ And that s why I love you ♪
My mother, my grandmother, my aunties,
Then, with industrialization, everything started to become centralized.
the police in Norway got a message from the police in the Netherlands.
for the Ministry of Agriculture of Rwanda,
So they were then able to tell
It was cozy in winter but extremely hot in summer.
which you might call tower sprawl.
You know, a lot of people said,  Well, you know,
So we launched Crisis Text Line,
It may even feel scary.
Whilst this was going on, the police I had alerted,
to explore the world,
totally alone.
and a year after winning the lotto, lottery winners and paraplegics
No one would ever love me.
and after three months of investigation, we were able to tell the story
and they d say,  You re not going to stop it here.
is one of the most carbon-intensive ways of fishing that you can find.
a GPS tracking device looked like this clunky box
Limited access to food, limited access to water,
that ordinary people can interact with in an industrial setting.
We were taken from our home
Which is very important, the performance is --
And let s face it, John could be anybody s father,
And if you walk again, it will be with calipers and a walking frame. 
we have shrimp draggers dragging for shrimp,
that bycatch in turn gets ground up and turned into shrimp food.
is that even though their filters were impaired,
If I have a GPS and a camera in my car,
(Applause)
It s an algorithm that actually allows you to browse
in the eastern part of Brazil,
at every single step of the path:
I lived in terror, knowing it would happen again and again.
but tuna is a spectacularly bad animal for aquaculture.
about vultures, but speak to your families, to your children,
That s a helium truck in the background.
That s a great thing for growing protein.
because, even though there are traces,
The next creature --
And this meant that I was a Libra?
And so this was the final operation,
There are over 3,000 dams in the state of Connecticut.
Do you know what all-time low in Texas means?
and this guy from North Carolina sidled up to me, he says,
What you die of is increasing organ failure,
with a custom sediment sampler we ve invented and built.
There are errors in translation, interpretative biases,
It shows this interlocution of elements and the beauty of, kind of, engineering
They ve gotten it below two to one,
was associated with autism.
Here the key idea is that
on the contribution of others.
That s an awful lot for a country like Haiti --
and on the right, the thermo-bimetal curls
So I went back and I had to go back to the tradition.
we re still killing a lot of these little fish.
that those countries that are the most gender equal
or any other woman or girl
get ground up and fed to fish.
(Laughter) (Applause)
It s sort of a reworking of the chicken and egg thing. Anyway --
There was a UN official who visited last year,
if you decide to get married and have kids right away,
That s the equivalent of a third of a China,
That s what I do.
that s taken out of the sea each and every year.
Why is it so difficult to think of preventing diseases,
malaria as a disease.
This, I would suggest, perhaps it will take a while,
Unfortunately though, the sandwich came in at 30 cents.
so he turned to Atlantic cod.
We all know what happened to Atlantic cod in New England.
So now the Filet-O-Fish sandwich is made out of Alaska pollock,
2 to 3 billion pounds of fish taken out of the sea every single year.
If we go through the pollock,
It s an emotional thing, and I ve tried to live with it,
who are in constant communication.
It s actually a very efficient converter of plant protein into animal protein,
is to have a very clear vision of the world that we live in.
And I watched young Elvis
a fraction of the fuel cost of say, shrimp,
based on priority need.
So that is a potential.
We re really excited about the possibility
denial of financial resources;
could we halve the catch and double the price for the fishermen
Other possibility though, which is much more interesting,
is looking at bivalves, particularly mussels.
It lets you reuse the same materials in multiple different ways,
but they had more than just expectations for us.
To bring a pound of mussels to market
is about a thirtieth of the carbon as required to bring beef to market.
you should be able to get.
they actually get their omega-3s by filtering the water of microalgae.
In fact, that s where omega-3s come from, they don t come from fish.
This baby we know is going to be in the clear.
We know the price tag is higher for low-income women,
And this is incredibly important when we look at the world.
Their children have lower rates of absenteeism,
are causing tremendous algal blooms.
Over 400 new dead zones have been created in the last 20 years,
We also could look at not a fish at all.
If we wanted to accelerate that process, we could do things
They filter the water just like mussels do.
We have one of the largest tuna fisheries remaining in the world.
starting from the time we get the mice?
(Applause)
But if you wanted to keep growing cattle
And then, are there people who live in this place
you re growing seaweed in the water, you don t have to water it --
And the last fish is a question mark.
This exists kind of on paper.
How could we implant those memories back in?
Every time I do a new story, somebody tells me,
Well, then they didn t look so fresh-faced and cute to me any more,
It is time to scale this up.
In other words, watching is very much part of the event.
30 million metric tons of seafood, a third of the world catch,
So the good news about PMS
So I guess what I m saying is this is what we ve been going with.
the prescription pad, the electronic medical record,
(Applause)
I was on a long road trip this summer,
of traveling to some incredible places,
TEDYouth, make some --
(Beatboxing)
(Beatboxing ends)
that may well have a genetic component to it.
(Cheers and applause)
and we should be avoiding at all expenses
Then, at the age of eight,
We were passing by a bus stop.
(Laughter)
And I remember exactly where I was and what I was doing that day.
NP: Get it pops, go ahead.
EC: ... when I was growing up in the  90s.
(Beatboxing)
(Beatboxing ends)
T: I don t want to let my parents down!
(Beatboxing)
Those are the kind of posters, let me show you.
hold up, hold up, hold up, hold up!
Oh my God.
OK, he s trying to battle me.
Hold on, right now, hold on.
EC: Yeah, yeah, I remember.
and it s also one with a great deal of influence.
When I was 11, I wanted to be left alone.
especially good at certain things.
NP: I remember that.
(Beatboxing)
NP: All right, pops, pops, pops, chill out, chill out.
Hold up, hold up, hold up.
EC: Y all remember the video.
This is like a little payback or something
for 50 million people calling me the loser.
NP: Hold up, hold up.
But a lot of people out there don t really know what beatboxing is,
of face metrics in a few seconds?
hence why Remi is so different from Sam.
NP: Where it came from.
everything from tooling to patents
Now, the ideology of choice is very successful
And a new metaphor is currently emerging,
which understand
That s right, that s right. New York, New York!
that s great, but all of this openness
a lot of my cousins and childhood friends were getting married off,
(Laughter)
NP: Now you can put y all hands down.
Things are changing, but classically,
Already in medicine,
because we discovered it through an autopsy process.
to keep the rock band together and playing.
But because I don t have electricity coming out of me,
we had to emulate what the beats was doing.
So when you would see the beatboxer,
you would see us over to the side.
Then you would see a rapper, and when the rapper began to rap,
we would do a simple beat,
because back then the beats were simple --
(Beatboxing)
or --
(Beatboxing)
Those were simple beats.
It s a promise to the kids.
with their beats now,
and they want to humiliate their father,
which is not right when you want to humiliate the person
that take care of you, pay all your tuition, (Nicole laughs)
especially when you have 50 million people
So let s move to the brain.
Well, I m taking that to heart.
But now we do something different in our house,
so we have these jam sessions,
and our jam sessions consist of us jamming in church.
You know, in church, we ll look at each other like,
(Beatboxing)
(Laughter)
and we ll text the beat to each other.
Or we ll be in the kitchen cooking,
road trips, airports.
everyone else should have it, because people are terrible drivers. 
(Beatboxing)
are like us, that they can suffer as we can,
EC: Yeah.
And then the mobile phone occurred,
NP: Y all want to hear some jam session? EC: Y all ready for a jam session?
(Cheers)
NP: Sorry? I can t hear you.
(Cheers)
Yeah! Kick it, pops!
scientists must agree on the specific characteristics
(Applause)
(Beatboxing)
(Beatboxing ends)
(Applause)
NP: I m getting ready to go!
and that means there s always a loser in baseball.
Get on up! Come on, stretch!
(Beatboxing)
(Beatboxing ends)
NP: That s it.
which at that time, by the way, that word didn t exist. (Laughter)
Thank you! Make some noise!
EG: Thank you, everybody!
NP: Make some noise! Make some noise!
But it s true that neuroscience shows that there is no centre in the brain
(Music)
That s pretty good.
I first actually got into this topic
So with H1N1,
and in the matter of a single flight
Age 10, it was saving my school dinner money change.
for money, for government investment.
So when someone actually goes on a plane,
and we saw that there s actually a very simple mathematical pattern
in their children s underwear, as if that could do something.
with the rest of the world.
and the environmentalists.
I know this letter will come to you surprisingly,
than actually physically going in and taking readings in the plane.
the universe can create complexity,
to democracy and national reconciliation.
So what we get, actually, with the conventional cabin is this:
But if you take that logic, you know,
and we go  Splat!  -- it goes right into people s faces.
It s pretty disgusting.
But if you give people vitamin D supplements,
you ll also notice those pathogens spreading across the length of the cabin.
The first thing I thought was,  This is no good. 
but are made out of the same building blocks,
and the teacher said this girl hardly ever paid attention,
That same year, in 2004, on the other side of the country,
to create personalized breathing zones.
So you ll notice the middle passenger here is sneezing again,
But over the many years,
So if you take a look again now at the same scenario
especially in a city like New York,
we spend on driving leaves the local economy --
When we take a look at what this means,
(Laughter) (Applause)
The first of these is informed consent.
with lots of different images,
Should I skip that part?
of just this single equation.
this project would not have happened,
and they are disorders of the mind.
So I find this hypothetical photo of myself,
Thanks.
Yeah, you did.
or making invisible macaroni and cheese.
The next morning, I just took all the pieces,
very cool during the summertime, and warm during the wintertime,
I collect stories; that s what I do.
decided to teach Zambian people how to grow food.
and Sandy made me realize that our devices
against forces that would threaten the faith, or the faithul.
and it talks about how,
You see, I m a Saudi woman who had been put in jail
And they compute that
maybe all of you and all of us are very close to immortality,
that would assure that every surgeon who practices minimally invasive surgery
I didn t want to go; I love my life.
these television ads that featured a woman
But the really interesting information came from the rest of the skeleton.
Second, Google looks at the picture file,
And they moved their bodies and they came forward,
describing 11 young patients who seemed to inhabit private worlds,
and the blue line is the one I want you to focus on for a second.
in a small town in India. Its name is Bhubaneswar,
Imagine you wake up with this terrible bellyache,
have led to conflicts over who owns what.
and reminding me, because I ve had, like, some very,
but this time, I realized it was different,
then maybe everything in the box squeaks.
Nobody here would ever be accused or be familiar with Narcissus.
When I say if mayors ruled the world,
On there is bacteria,
CR: But where s the level of it now?
for the existence of intelligent beings such as ourselves.
(Laughter)
because people need a good high
And the first one, in fact, is something that has been known
but one trillion frames per second.
use my 18 minutes to tell you why we re doing it,
and then turn off a lock and a key
at collecting her data.
to become the minister.
in order to find all the resources they need to reproduce and survive.
just because of the relevance of light in its brightness and also in its shadows.
that he could not make my talk
So our engineering students went to work on it
What s suddenly possible was demonstrated by
And when I got to 10,000 feet, I opened a parachute and I landed.
This is a knee that s been designed specifically
into a common European language,
what once happened in that sacred cave.
And that is most countries in America and Europe,
Howard is a man of a certain degree of intellectual standards.
it makes it possible for a mathematical analysis
by criminals.
where you hear about armed jihadis
and all of the extravehicular activity suits.
I said,  I am not going to be famous to the world,
Or Jenny, who is a single mother of two
Screw you. Go to the back of the line and someone else will do it,
Surfas.
(Laughter) (Applause)
and it s about 100 times magnification,
in widespread use all over Latin America, and in particular in Mexico,
In fear, just like in fiction, one thing always leads to another.
and surveys showed that people
can tell anyone anything about my ability.
in years to come, 10 years to come, 15 years to come,
We had 18 months to do everything from zero, from scratch.
Information is powerful,
In fact, if I m feeling down,
during my deployments in Lebanon, Sarajevo
is because they care so much about the institution
of full inclusion and equal opportunity.
and the only piece of technology that I really want to talk about is XML.
you probably used one of these.
talking about who they are, sharing these personal stories --
I have a few areas that I believe are especially important that we address.
(Applause)
I hope that you will take a look at it.
Would you sacrifice thousands of lives
We think in abstract terms, we think in movement.
who I was.
(Laughter)
40 million dollars over 10 years spread over 17 countries.
Now, this is a very attractive idea,
I covered a range of topics that concern women s education,
to light this bulb for more than a year.
[123 meters]
(Applause)
that embracing a limitation could actually drive creativity.
I was aware that I was the only girl who got to have such freedom,
In the three months this project has been public,
(Breathing out)
You see, in every country
because if transaction costs are the glue
Complexo do Alemão has an HDI of .711.
where this mosquito resides.
of economic growth over the next 15 years will come
but knows when you need to hear
must tackle big systems for the challenges we have.
Argentina, and beyond.
Edith Widder (on video): Oh my God. Oh my God! Are you kidding me?Other scientists: Oh ho ho! That s just hanging there.
but it s my understanding that s a very tame image
I don t even need to swim.
and the passengers could actually stay warm? 
So together with Zeit Online and Open Data City, I did this.
What is happening in the sky here
and then figure out what to do with it,
But actually it does, but it just doesn t do it well enough.
when I looked in my rearview mirror and saw my own brightening glance.
that s the world s dirtiest oil.
Even with that clear-cut paper in our hands,
I found exactly the same number.
What s happening increasingly, though, is these systems
I came across this live band
but Burroughs Wellcome has just been acquired by Glaxo Wellcome.
Now, even more interesting is the fact
to the everyday person
I ve got a few more of these interesting ones.
is a persuasive technology.
Once in his office, I sat on his couch, folded over,
Because the final step in the domestic violence pattern
I would like you all
and will do the same on the way up.
And with everything else that s going on,
and I now like being myself better
So how are we going to do this?
the baby with the bathwater.
and they judge by judging evidence.
and that effort backfired.
was not simple,
Nature is this incredibly complex machine.
or those at greatest risk with respect
I need a few seconds to come back,
not in a passive society, a read-only society,
I d like you to know that if one day you try to stop breathing,
You might think there are many things that I can t do
because I cannot see.
That s largely true.
Actually, I just needed to have a bit of help
and for the past 40 years, I ve done the same thing.
where we are now in addressing it,
Actually, I love sports and I can play many sports,
like swimming, skiing, skating, scuba diving, running and so on.
But there is one limitation:
somebody needs to help me.
I want to be independent.
she gave me cold, aspirin,
That s when the British army surgeon Ronald Ross
and suddenly I became blind.
but my life for the next five or six years.
For example, one of my challenges was textbooks.
Back then, there were no personal computers,
no Internet, no smartphones.
So I had to ask one of my two brothers to read me textbooks,
because when emotion comes into it,
Can you imagine?
Of course, my brothers were not happy about it,
and later, I noticed they were not there whenever I needed them.
(Laughter)
I think they tried to stay away from me.
I don t blame them.
I really wanted to be freed from relying on someone.
but what I want to talk about is some of the disconnects
Jump ahead to the mid-1980s.
I got to know cutting-edge technologies
and what is this mysterious dark energy
how come there is no computer technology
I ended up on a farm in the middle of nowhere.
These amazing technologies must be able to also help people
with limitations like myself.
which was amazing to me,
that never came back.
such as a digital Braille editor, digital Braille dictionary
and a digital Braille library network.
Today, every student who is visually impaired can read textbooks,
by using personal computers and mobile devices,
in Braille or in voice.
It s not the material goods we want; it s the rewards we want.
since everyone now has digital books in their tablets in 2015.
But Braille went digital many years before digital books,
already in the late 1980s, almost 30 years ago.
Strong and specific needs of the blind people
made this opportunity to create digital books way back then.
And this is actually not the first time this happened,
because it is an opportunity to affect the outcome of the conflict
I said,  Yeah, as an academic, it s not my field. 
for hearing impaired people.
Some keyboards were also invented to help people with disabilities.
Now I m going to give you another example from my own life.
and make them happier.
and web browsing.
I remember the first time I went on the web.
trembled not with joy
They are stopped when they go to school,
and shape changes on our face,
I desperately wanted to help the blind people have access to the Internet,
and I found ways to render the web into synthesized voice,
which dramatically simplified the user interface.
This led me to develop the Home Page Reader in 1997,
It s sometimes trying to put you out of business,
When I developed the Home Page Reader,
I got many comments from users.
to purchase and fly aerial drones.
 For me, the Internet is a small window to the world. 
so we could walk around without slipping.
Jason s parents had asked him to do so.
and this technology that we created for the blind has many uses,
way beyond what I imagined.
so we made a large boat with a large sail,
or it can help you listen to a recipe while cooking.
Today, I am more independent,
but it is still not enough.
For example, when I approached the stage just now, I needed assistance.
My goal is to come up here independently.
in places like South L.A.
My goal is to be able to travel and do things that are simple to you.
OK, now let me show you the latest technologies.
This is a smartphone app that we are working on.
(Video) Electronic voice: 51 feet to the door, and keep straight.
EV: Take the two doors to go out. The door is on your right.
has already saved 5.8 million lives
Chieko Asakawa: Hi, Nick!
And this could happen in every classroom in America tomorrow --
CA: Where are you going? You look so happy.
That s the kind of machine that makes energy.
Home is an alley in a faraway town
Nick: Thanks. Wait -- how d you know it was me, and that I look happy?
(Chieko and Nick laugh)
Man: Hi.
(Laughter)
CA: Oh ... hi.
EV: He is not talking to you, but on his phone.
EV: Potato chips.
and want to go to Constantinople,
EV: You gained 5 pounds since yesterday; take apple instead of chocolate.
(Laughter)
EV: Approaching.
EV: You arrived.
CA: Now ...
and I had to leave, back to Karachi, and our actions stopped.
Thank you.
to get Joe and people like him
by analyzing beacon signals and smartphone sensors
Did he look for the most popular variety of spaghetti sauce?
in the history of the kind of Christianity
in which mood -- we are still working on that part.
And recognizing facial expressions is very important for me to be social.
So now the fusions of technologies are ready to help me
see the real world.
It understands our surrounding world
in a developmental lab nearby.
Cognitive assistance will augment missing or weakened abilities --
in other words, our five senses.
This technology is only in an early stage,
but eventually, I ll be able to find a classroom on campus,
was a bit of a slap in the face.
from what I thought was a genuine threat from the voices.
It will be amazing if I can find you on the street before you notice me.
It will become my best buddy, and yours.
So, this really is a great challenge.
 I will need an infinite thread to sew up this huge wound. 
I really, like, I just want to say,
to accelerate research activities.
to upgrade our early middle age -- we had four kids, after all --
this one single factory every single day, day-fresh bread.
and he said,  They ate all the grass so there was no grass left. 
The blind community is exploring this technical frontier
and the pathfinder.
I hope to work with you to explore the new era,
Russia has lots of natural resource wealth,
through technology and innovation,
I will be able to walk up here
 Injecting honesty into the process by driving debate. 
Thank you so much.
(Applause)
In half a century of trying to help prevent wars,
William Swenson
The West had corrupted me with divergent ideas,
that you couldn t describe:
I flew on Air Force Two for eight years.
There are 330 tubes, diameter 55 [centimeters],
Chris addressed us, the scientists and experts,
we actually lived in caves,
we are like Hansel and Gretel
after they give birth.
Is it old age? The answer, it turns out,
running toward me, wearing my sweater.
that I recently decided to shoot and star in a parody series of stock photos
You ll notice that there s no baby in this photo,
it lets us see each breath that this infant takes,
that appear when an author publishes a book.
and I just wanted to read it. I picked up that book,
between 10,000 and 40,000 years ago.
came to the conclusion that it was really something
just to tell me what it s like for them to go back to work
The way that you look at this data is,
then use finite element modeling to better predict
and for society to deal with in building
I was a very, very serious child. (Laughter)
I guess what I would say is, for us, for what I want to do,
is not a photographic effect. (Laughter)
Now, don t, please, misunderstand me.
I don t really know what s going on in this picture,
you simply upload it to the autopilot system,
Nowadays, a network of tweets can unleash a global awareness campaign.
that s really the key to the science of moving dots, or as we like to call it,
And anyway, women have made a choice,
It was ingenious,
They feel that they understand how it is,
The drawings are much richer.
is not to have just a Homo sapiens;
to match the surroundings.
once Milosevic is gone, which turned out to be true.
I didn t make you have a baby.
Does awesome inspire fear?
Our procreation on a national scale is not optional.
(Nature sounds)
That s a lot of real estate, but of course,
with quite a bit of noise
OK, this is pop quiz time:
to concede that it s hard work. Right?
88 percent.
88 percent of working mothers will not get one minute of paid leave
half of new mothers are ineligible for it.
from a balcony perspective, I was able to thank him for his remarks
We found carnivorous kangaroos.
of the unicorn — (Laughter) — unfortunately,
A nurse told me,  I didn t qualify for short-term disability
Eleanor Roosevelt, Rosa Parks, Gandhi --
Where do they occur?
and the Iraqis would be greeting the Americans as liberators,
get a mentor, enhance your network,
You may feel uncomfortable about the age of information that we re moving into.
With my second, I had to have major surgery after giving birth,
a three-bedroom home in a nice neighborhood.
23 percent of new working mothers in America
And it seems like a trivial result, but this is the sort of research
It s a godly way of working.
 Yeah right, you never really wanted the job. 
had to figure out what to do about this situation.
I ve never met this woman, but I find it hard to get through.
And so yesterday it was very interesting to meet with these people.
Wow. Let s go for it. That s the kind of stuff.
So I feel a bit as Ted Nelson must have
would be a story where no murder ever occurs.
One of the reasons I know this is that babies whose mothers
In fact, whenever you bring it up in a debate about surveillance,
Today in Mexico we re asking for Gandhis.
They communicate. We have off-line meetings.
because my husband was out of work.
Without me, my daughter had failure to thrive.
leaving their families in imprisonment,
He let my mom bring my baby,
can change the meaning of the social practices,
We all want to bring every good thing to our children.
They are Papua New Guinea, Suriname and the tiny island nations
and he would measure their times around the track in a group,
with 320 million people.
than when they had a hot ball.
for the people doing the work of the future of those countries,
We say that the market will solve this problem,
We know that there are staggering economic, financial, physical
a belief that their life is as valuable to them
Right? Because that s not the way the world works.
All of this is to America s shame.
Why do we want to be involved?
if all of these individual so-called choices to have babies
you ll see people coming from all over the country
If we were to have to do it again the same way as with our first,
agree that that s what we ought to be doing
the more likely that they are
to a mixed-use building that was very large,
I m here today with only one idea worth spreading,
Not one more woman should have to go back to work
to buy a few days of rest and recovery and bonding.
and then celebrates the solution of a new well
and humans will find a way of living together
The catch is that when this is happening to a new family, it is consuming,
became more and more transparent,
We have to stop framing this as a mother s issue,
or even a women s issue.
and it just struck me as ironic
We need to stop buying the lie that these images tell us.
I couldn t have done better.
Because this is not,
What was the most difficult job you ever did?
Was it working in the sun?
Was it working to provide food for a family or a community?
Was it working days and nights trying to protect lives and property?
What is possible with the human voice?
or working on a project that wasn t guaranteed to succeed,
Was it working to build something, create something, make a work of art?
Was it work for which you were never sure
The people in our communities who do these jobs
But people aren t the only ones in our communities
These jobs are also done by the plants, the animals
The structures that they build protect our shorelines
from storm surge and waves,
Can I help you?
I grew up in a very sheltered environment.
 Travel the world and have lots of kids. 
So for all of these reasons, all of these ecosystem services,
And yet despite all that hard work being done for us
And one of them said,  We had a robbery two weeks ago.
to some account for the purposes of aviation,
we skype, we Facebook. It s insane.
and cod liver oil was brought in.
I must confess, there s kind of a third motivation as well.
This is a coral that I studied during my PhD --
to each of these frauds.
This magnification of threats, this compounding of factors
Now, because of global warming,
It was Bihar all over again.
Now, this is the part of the talk
by the time of World War I.
I don t think they know that, luckily,
that phrase drives me nuts.
is difficult, and there s three reasons.
And you know, a lot of people try to fudge this question,
I mean anyone in the world --
and also you had this little habit
If they don t understand what a coral is or where it comes from,
So let s change that.
Corals are born in a number of different ways,
So what happens then?
Don t accept their enslavement, for your mother birthed you free. 
When they re fertilized, they do what any other animal egg does:
Taking these photos under the microscope every year
to infer anything else
that fills with fluid -- in this case blood --
Huh? Oh?
And they use those talents
Thank you guys for being such a good sport.
One coral polyp will divide itself again and again and again,
Given hundreds of years and many species,
Now, there are only a few hundred species of corals on the planet, maybe 1,000.
But these systems house millions and millions of other species,
directed some of the energy of that gravitational collapse
I m lucky enough to work on the island of Curaçao,
Because even in some of these reefs
And we re starting to think that baby corals may have the ability
But how does context signal?
out of the same material that we ll later use to build the house.
So in the research I do with my colleagues in Curaçao,
A few years ago we took a 3D printer and we made coral choice surveys --
that we can fluidically link them.
I don t have any financial interest in it.
So we can use this knowledge,
it s roughly equal to the stopping power
We can also use that knowledge
He s coming my way.
He knows exactly what the problem is,
and they actually copied even the green dots
And so these cars came along, and the hydrant --
The electricity is free.
He is, by the way, a straight-A+ student in the ninth grade
Now in addition to these tools, we also try to uncover the mysteries
through preschool and other early childhood programs
This is one of my favorite corals, and always has been:
There s something sacred about a space where
I love it because it makes this ridiculous shape,
When he collected these finches, he threw them in a bag
There s far too many experienced people in the TED community
that last year it was listed as a threatened species
We weren t even sure if they could still reproduce,
So four years ago, we started following these at night
We got some good tips from our colleagues in Florida,
These are Nukaks. They were contacted in the  80s.
on one of these self-care models
Thanks to the work of our scientific aunts and uncles,
to pursue a vision of personal success,
(Applause)
Now actually, that s just another parochial misconception.
And this is true all around the world;
is our celebrity ambassador, and that is so, so important
But this is still so low-tech.
We are limited by the space on our bench, the number of hands in the lab
Now, compare that to our other crises
which is,  Before you were a guerrilla, you were my child,
Think back to the most difficult job you ever did.
Many of you would say it was being a parent.
My mother described being a parent
And watching the wonder of life
The pillar corals spawned again two weeks ago,
how much time was spent between messages?
They ll be infected with bacteria, they will explode
We don t know if it was our handling methods that went wrong
like in 1910 or something like that, is I told Marty,
Whatever the cause,
could become the same kind of hub that we are,
Coral reefs are hardworking animals and plants and microbes and fungi.
And we almost took out an entire generation of corals.
But a few made it anyway, despite our best efforts,
GG: Grateful.
GDP was not handed down from God on tablets of stone. (Laughter)
And I ve come to realize that we have made leadership
like this panel of humans, triangles and zigzags from Ojo Guareña in Spain.
and our present existence, and most important, our future survival.
for pleasure and for pain.
And so, he was destined to be raised by a single mom,
There are instructions which say,
an oversimplified and increasingly outmoded view
who s not sure whether malaria is a good thing or a bad thing?
I wanted my monument to live in the world, and to circulate.
of state economic development agencies about these issues,
The women would tell the men what to do.
and in this one single consumer electronics store,
I ve turned the computer on,
and out of those 53 studies, they were only able
But it was really through teaching.
But a good career is an impossibility, so that s not going to work.
They could not confront myself, with myself as a normal human being.
is I went to the hotel, it was at two in the morning.
And
and I had a piece of gray hair.
Children with cleft palates get it, and they document their story.
First of all, let s explain what the performance is.
as we fly over them.
in a space in front of an audience
And the difference between performance and theater is huge.
and he looked like a farm boy.
under horrible conditions.
and getting the paint in his ears,
and with this energy I can go and push my body as far as I can.
(Applause)
we banned child labor,
and one of the engineers on the team had a hunch.
So a lot of people have heard about the Wikipedia Bush-Kerry controversy.
The school had been destroyed,
that brought us close to a civil war.
driven by racist fears of Chinese
Again, working upwards,
With this framework, we ve produced bionic limbs
the fleeting moment of human connection,
And professional designers were making artifacts
or enlarge into a gigantic space that I could fill with fantasies.
But I sit for three months.
and 10 hours on Friday when the museum is open 10 hours,
This is my flight director telling me that I had just gone higher
of a DNA constituent.
It ll never be accepted.
because in the gaze with that total stranger,
Wild dogs did eat a few of the sheep, but the thylacine got a bad rap.
at the same scale, a visual interneuron from a fly.
or over 50 percent of our body. And so at first I kind of thought,
performance is time-based art.
Have a look at this bit of film footage.
from all of those parties
And it s very simple.
You have to sign the contract before you enter the building,
but if you don t respect your own word of honor and you leave before --
at their regular physical,
(Laughter)
He made false papers for persecuted black South Africans.
And then after you ve seen all of this,
because we don t know how long it s going to take
You go to the long duration chairs because now you are comfortable.
(Laughter)
Nairobi, Lagos, Accra -- I get one question.
in fact is not going to develop autism.
On the other hand, this other baby
if they want to know why it s raining
I ll just mention a few.
is make Minsky s dream come to a reality,
and if you squint, you can see that in the imagery.
We are always doing things we like in our life.
And those people have made up that community of passionate folks
for Live Your Legend so many years back.
Texas doesn t.
thin, dehydrated.
(Applause)
that we actually could be able to identify who the first one was,
when we re sitting around the table and having a good time.
And so what did they do?
(Chatter)
Thank you for trusting me.
Your company launches a search for an open position.
up to the seventh floor every day.
So I ask you:
A new kind of reality TV show was born,
it had relatively little relevance
from affluent families.
But we ve been much more reticent, much slower
Because of the difference between what her mom tells her and what her friends
(Laughter)
A resume tells a story.
Where could this happen?
slowed down to a pace
Or it may signal a committed struggle against obstacles.
focusing on just one task,
Now, what did that lead us to?
 Why not?  the girls asked.
I know a lot about this because I am a Scrapper.
my father was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia,
Over 17 goals, there are then 169 targets
but we also suffered some setbacks.
And he would think it through and say,  What was wrong?
and for most of my childhood, we didn t even have a telephone.
In the sorts of countries I work in,
So, for instance,
But the key is, you can have this great invention,
it s quite easy to work with, and I m going to do something
and so you would have Google, Facebook, Yahoo,
The conventional thinking has been that trauma leads to distress,
So curiosity.
In one study designed to measure the effects of adversity
I put the phone back on the receiver, and it rang a second later,
But he had no insurance, so they bounced him.
When I was a young man,
more confusing in a way.
In a study of the world s most highly successful entrepreneurs,
In the US,
What s remarkable -- among those entrepreneurs
the state-of-the-art physics, can show how
So he said, this is what I want to do.
or we re going to hear about drugs
So the unconstrained disclosure of those capabilities
But instead of accepting his fate,
He had three months to learn the entire curriculum
of middle and high school.
So, every day he came home from the factory,
His commitment to his education was unwavering, and he never lost hope.
the wars that are driving them from their homes.
Scrappers have a sense of purpose
And that reminds me -- humor.
People who overcome adversity don t do it alone.
Somewhere along the way,
to build and perpetuate large fortunes
Having someone you can count on no matter what
You re gonna spread the gay agenda so no one else has to wonder,
But there s something I think that s quite interesting in this graph,
Companies that are committed to diversity and inclusive practices
tend to support Scrappers
So back to my original question.
Who are you going to bet on:
I am not a dairy farmer.
and it means that jump from 1,800 years of nothing
Governments should recognize that
I realized that this was a symbolic moment in my life.
If you re here today --
by looking at what s on their bookshelves.
What do my bookshelves say about me?
Well, when I asked myself this question a few years ago,
I made an alarming discovery.
I d always thought of myself as a fairly cultured,
cosmopolitan sort of person.
But my bookshelves told a rather different story.
Pretty much all the titles on them
were by British or North American authors,
and there was almost nothing in translation.
Discovering this massive, cultural blind spot in my reading
came as quite a shock.
And when I thought about it, it seemed like a real shame.
I knew there had to be lots of amazing stories out there
Oceans of adolescents come here to receive lessons
And it seemed really sad to think that my reading habits meant
trying to make sense of standards,
So, I decided to prescribe myself
an intensive course of global reading.
2012 was set to be a very international year for the UK;
it was the year of the London Olympics.
And so I decided to use it as my time frame
to try to read a novel, short story collection
or memoir from every country in the world.
And so I did.
And it was very exciting
and I learned some remarkable things
It s more mundane. I d like that cookie,
that I want to share with you today.
But it started with some practical problems.
Actually, extreme green for us is all three together;
And — (Laughter)
neither to oversell the role of technology,
to which I added Taiwan,
which gave me a total of 196 countries.
And after I d worked out how to fit reading and blogging
about, roughly, four books a week
around working five days a week,
I then had to face up to the fact that I might even not be able
of power and privilege, the ability to go unexamined,
Only around 4.5 percent of the literary works published
each year in the UK are translations,
and the figures are similar for much of the English-speaking world.
is that I get to call this  research. 
4.5 percent is tiny enough to start with,
but what that figure doesn t tell you
is that many of those books will come from countries
in the beginning of our grade 12 year.
and lots of industry professionals primed to go out and sell those titles
with the power of rational thought,
So, for example, although well over 100 books are translated from French
and published in the UK each year,
most of them will come from countries like France or Switzerland.
French-speaking Africa, on the other hand,
will rarely ever get a look-in.
The upshot is that there are actually quite a lot of nations
that may have little or even no commercially available literature
It s blowing!
Their books remain invisible to readers
and everybody likes their mobile phones,
But when it came to reading the world,
the biggest challenge of all for me
was that fact that I didn t know where to start.
Having spent my life reading almost exclusively British
and North American books,
I had no idea how to go about sourcing and finding stories
But I also mean good as in motivated to do something that matters --
particularly using this recipe.
I wouldn t know a good novel from Namibia.
There was no hiding it --
I was a clueless literary xenophobe.
So how on earth was I going to read the world?
I was going to have to ask for help.
And around the fortress is this vast field of taboo
ayearofreadingtheworld.com,
We need to better understand how people make decisions
I explained who I was,
how narrow my reading had been,
and I asked anyone who cared to
to leave a message suggesting what I might read
from other parts of the planet.
Now, I had no idea whether anyone would be interested,
but within a few hours of me posting that appeal online,
people started to get in touch.
At first, it was friends and colleagues.
Then it was friends of friends.
but a lot of the time.
I got a message from a woman called Rafidah in Kuala Lumpur.
She said she loved the sound of my project,
could she go to her local English-language bookshop
and choose my Malaysian book and post it to me?
I accepted enthusiastically,
and it requires a total body cooling.
a package arrived containing not one, but two books --
Rafidah s choice from Malaysia,
and a book from Singapore that she had also picked out for me.
Now, at the time, I was amazed
that a stranger more than 6,000 miles away
Once a guy had a hole in his pocket,
she would probably never meet.
ML: It s much better than that.
The funny this is that at most sites
Some took on research on my behalf,
and others made detours on holidays and business trips
to go to bookshops for me.
that will go into it.
if you want to encounter it with an open mind,
And I ve always felt that the beauty of being surrounded by the foreign
the lack of concern with rules and the way that we re used to
with little or no commercially available literature in English,
people went further still.
And that s -- Essentially, this kind of creative remix
My Panamanian read, for example, came through a conversation
I had with the Panama Canal on Twitter.
They don t draw to sell the work to a client
it suggested that I might like to try and get hold of the work
of the Panamanian author Juan David Morgan.
I found Morgan s website and I sent him a message,
asking if any of his Spanish-language novels
had been translated into English.
that are similar to the neocortex.
but he did have an unpublished translation
of his novel  The Golden Horse. 
He emailed this to me,
allowing me to become one of the first people ever
to read that book in English.
Morgan was by no means the only wordsmith
to share his work with me in this way.
using napkins, then we have to cut our family milk budget. 
And then we help them to go and find the knowledge,
and unpublished manuscripts of books
that hadn t been picked up by Anglophone publishers
or that were no longer available,
We ve been working with Teachers Without Borders,
I read, for example,
into a community where endless possibility reigned.
They can be too scared to approach men with beards
and about marriage rituals in a remote village
on the shores of the Caspian sea in Turkmenistan.
I met Kuwait s answer to Bridget Jones.
(Laughter)
And I read about an orgy in a tree in Angola.
But perhaps the most amazing example
of the lengths that people were prepared to go to
to help me read the world,
came towards the end of my quest,
when I tried to get hold of a book from the tiny, Portuguese-speaking
African island nation of São Tomé and Príncipe.
Now, having spent several months trying everything I could think of to find
a book that had been translated into English from the nation,
So the number needed to treat for the most widely prescribed statin,
was to see if I could get something translated for me from scratch.
Now, I was really dubious
whether anyone was going to want to help with this,
and give up their time for something like that.
But, within a week of me putting a call out on Twitter and Facebook
for Portuguese speakers,
I had more people than I could involve in the project,
including Margaret Jull Costa, a leader in her field,
who has translated the work of Nobel Prize winner José Saramago.
With my nine volunteers in place,
I managed to find a book by a São Toméan author
that I could buy enough copies of online.
Here s one of them.
And I sent a copy out to each of my volunteers.
They all took on a couple of short stories from this collection,
and then again -- really fold it, really crease it --
and within six weeks, I had the entire book to read.
That s a hundred thousand billion.
my not knowing and being open about my limitations
had become a big opportunity.
When it came to São Tomé and Príncipe,
it was a chance not only to learn something new
and discover a new collection of stories,
Now, businesses tend to complain about this,
and facilitate a joint creative endeavor.
My weakness had become the project s strength.
The books I read that year opened my eyes to many things.
during most of the history of mankind.
we must prepare the next generation
and into someone else s mindset,
The norm.
you look at the world through different eyes.
and on top of this, we start school,
particularly if you re reading a book
from a culture that may have quite different values to your own.
But it can also be really enlightening.
Wrestling with unfamiliar ideas can help clarify your own thinking.
And it can also show up blind spots
in the way you might have been looking at the world.
When I looked back at much of the English-language literature
I d grown up with, for example,
I began to see how narrow a lot of it was,
compared to the richness that the world has to offer.
And as the pages turned,
something else started to happen, too.
Yes, by the time they retire, futureless language speakers, holding constant their income,
that long list of countries that I d started the year with, changed
from a rather dry, academic register of place names
into living, breathing entities.
Now, I don t want to suggest that it s at all possible
to get a rounded picture of a country simply by reading one book.
but what I am saying is that even though you will read
made me more alive than ever before
you would feel threatened.
It was as though the world s stories
and the people who d gone to such lengths to help me read them
had made it real to me.
is led onto the valley floor by an attendant.
It s the flag of Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
they tell a rather different story.
That didn t go over really well.
across political, geographical, cultural, social, religious divides.
So that s pretty much what I do.
In the Arab region, they brand these attempts as a Western conspiracy
But to reach this point, we all have to be convinced
Quite often queues happen at the tolls.
for a stranger to share a story, a worldview, a book
with someone she may never meet, on the other side of the planet.
Now these are controversial questions,
And I hope many more people will join me.
If we all read more widely, there d be more incentive
for publishers to translate more books,
and we would all be richer for that.
Thank you.
(Applause)
In the last few years, I helped two friends
and it may continue like this.
So when I first came across this study a few years earlier,
is to pay my respects to the gods of creativity.
I talked to African-American women, Asian-American women,
and you cure the disease.
Ladies and gentlemen ...
and then I made a scary phone call.
and this completely horrible vibrato --
But the thing that struck me
And the reason it isn t is because everybody s
so we really have to make piloting easier.
and a further 23 percent
I always accepted the idea
So we re going to actually do a live exam
It s one of the things I find most fascinating
Those people didn t have the shoulders of any giants to stand on.
is the energy consumption of the U.K.
that if you re sitting where this photograph was taken
who sometimes want a lot of children.
Europe is one of the first places
I began to get to know him and his friends and family,
a big challenge globally.
going to her heart.
or this unusual purple bison from La Pasiega.
the economic soil of a country,
to the social changes that were happening in their own country.
and you are calling you, and you have this great
Young students are always asking me
We also know that we have the second friend —
the nuns made service and social justice a high priority in the school.
So if he s successful, she won t be the last.
That very sentence already reveals the doom, destruction of happiness.
by definition didn t kill us,
the skill associated with solar cycles,
We re supposed to do things by design.
of over 120 miles an hour.
We ve been working with AMD, which has a project called 50x15,
(Laughter)
This is an incredibly devastating weapon.
Nelson Mandela, first day in office,
(Laughter)
Observation now allows us to bring that natural process
half of the data points from that one study,
sometimes the solution is to slice it into smaller problems.
This is a very important point for me to get across.
designers want to be influenced
Could some of the signs be weaponry or housing?
in the Dominican Republic, Haiti,
They ve made our lives
where all sorts of products made from the coca leaf,
are as important a story.
that the average focus for an 18-year-old is 37 seconds.
Over a million people are killed each year in disasters.
Look at the world.
It s a little older than TED.
for our first communion and our first confession,
not just dying, but they re gone.
left here on Earth?
but it does seem useful to ask ourselves,
They were just there, but they had no significance.
renouncing materialism, traditional jobs
you can collect a lot more material.
because all of these neurons are glowing different colors.
in a call center, in a reception area, in a mail room.
no matter how far into the laboratory
of the decisions and experiences and  Aha!  moments
So that we could truly build an ecosystem with not just authors,
and having their first Friday night dinners, that Sabbath dinner,
If you look at the human brain compared to a chimpanzee brain,
They don t get tired and they have fun doing it.
OK, maybe you re saying, all right, well, we see brains,
that has historically ignored or deflected the needs
then cutting trees again.
So these elephants, you can see,
respond to the global challenges that we face
because you don t have to waste six units
A pool of delicious nectar
but I can t explain
We see helping where help is needed.
It is possible, and you can do it very simply
How are they doing it? Well, they re rolling them in a straight line.
But when this happened, I saw the whole planet.
and basic and take a picture of your food,
That s the percentage of American agricultural land
And it made me think:
and the sports and the recreation and the arts?
that s public and a budget that s accessible.
So I fought my way off my label, and for my next project
which I have brought to the grid
and they re tired when their tongues are hanging out,
When the A.I. is weak, it performs useful or amusing actions
and acting joyful and happy,
He flips it, makes it,
(Laughter)
So this Weibo social media, even in the censorship,
With the benefit of hindsight, I now know the job
which we sometimes call the alpha female.
out of its own history book
is the difference between landing in Alaska or Fiji.
BG: Don t go away.
had just stopped?
Well, if you take the informational,
It s three dots there on the globe. Those dots are pretty huge.
I m going to talk about why we have to get our shit together,
And so I just came, two days ago, from the Himalayas
and then thousands of readers, as people tuned in
and the Line Islands in the east.
that is actually in the four corners of the world,
because we are in the Northern Hemisphere, in the Southern Hemisphere,
and also in the east and the west of the International Date Line.
These islands are entirely made up of coral atolls,
and discovered I had permanent nerve damage.
in a regular grid of lamps.
Usually not more than two kilometers in width.
And so, on many occasions, I ve been asked by people,
you can hate me and move on.
If we move back, we will fall off on the other side of the ocean. OK?
When was it that you yourself realized
that there might be impending peril for your country?
And so this is what they do.
and on most calculators that will give you the square.
Already in the United States alone,
are we still together?
getting the thousands of workers into these countries.
said that any federal funds given to a high school, college or university,
But when the scenarios, the predictions came in 2007,
sea levels are forecast to rise perhaps three feet.
and not in the past, but what about in a hundred years?
but what would you say to a skeptic who said,
 What s three feet?
to drop through the letterbox before we start,
that a marginal rise in sea level
because much of the land is low.
one was in Cambodia,
to manufacture a perfectly bespoke porous textile mesh,
We have communities who already have been dislocated.
he might be seen as endorsing bin Laden s idea of jihad.
And then we took the dead nucleus from the dead tissue of the extinct frog
So how on Earth do we even see?
and its flight with split-second timing to achieve this maneuver.
on a house that looks like that
that sundering of everything familiar,
and I see these communities perhaps leaving, having to relocate,
within five to 10 years.
but only one-third of your own program is dedicated to media and books.
We could actually do without the employee.
and I m sure many of you understand that when you re on the equator,
As opposed to the first office
when videos of beheadings were released during the Iraq War.
(Laughter)
Jeff Bezos kindly, yesterday, said he ll put this video up
like defusing a bomb.
we had waves come over half the island,
from the time that the Texas execution apparatus got efficient
It s cow dung.
So, One Laptop Per Child was formed about a year and a half ago.
and this is where you see the health impacts
In the 1930s, Richard Kelly was the first person to really describe
that in the beginning version we are using with it.
that we will face sooner than perhaps the rising sea level.
I think I visit a number of --
I ve been traveling the world to try and get people to understand.
and there was a gentleman who was interviewing me
in the back of the classroom. It s not a perfect shot.
So based on the same logic, I could equally conclude
but rather, better adults than you have been,
And so I have been looking at floating islands.
under this four-degree centigrade scenario
But, as a country, we have made a commitment
So, this would be the Twitter search screen.
at a small barbecue place in Michigan.
What that will take,
it s going to be something quite significant,
And I went to Catholic schools for my entire childhood
by an erosion of support for the death penalty,
or we have to build up the islands to continue to stay out of the water
to get the kind of resourcing that we would need.
In fact, if you have issues,
because in the event that nothing comes forward
we are preparing,
the holy trinity, even --
without having been prepared to do so.
And I will explain that further.
We had no exoskeleton, we had no patients,
but once we magnify the motions 100 times, we can see all the motions and ripples
I do not like guns.
you visited these people.
What happened here? What s the story here?
AT: Yes, and I m sorry, I think somebody was asking
I m not the only one doing it, a lot of other people are getting into it.
In particular, a bunch of the projects that are funded by Hewlett Foundation,
They didn t know who I was. They hadn t heard of me.
Some of them later recognized me,
that can be important.
We have to break parents out of this straitjacket
we didn t, unfortunately, at this same time,
have a molecule of concern about the welfare for this species.
(Laughter)
For the most widely performed surgery on men over the age of 50,
by saying,  In the good life,
CA: It must have been just an extraordinarily emotional day
like they can do anything they want to do in life.
to try to preserve the nation in a location.
And, I mean, that is quite amazing, what you see here --
They re interested in almost everything.
 So how do you feel? 
Within the map is a map of every plant in this orchard.
and I know that on occasions, I m accused of not trying to solve the problem
that PMS is a common mental disorder
and then the Japanese-American internment camps are quickly created,
But the truth lies.
unfortunately, the countries, when we come to the United Nations --
where Australia and New Zealand are also members,
These animals deserve to be cared for.
Well, what the XML is going to do
really, before the 19th century.
And so here I was saying,
OK, I hear you,
I understand what you re saying,
This is a little bone, a mouse bone that we fractured
because if you do not cut your emissions,
And so it s a matter for you to weigh this, these moral issues.
CA: You know, I ask you yesterday what made you angry,
and you said,  I don t get angry.  But then you paused.
We went down to the Federal Reserve and copied interest rate histories
There was a sense of futility
I had to change my approach.
I had to become more reasonable
because I thought people would listen to somebody who was rational,
but I remain radically rational, whatever that is.
We pitch in and we help out.
I think you said pretty much everyone is involved in fishing in some way.
AT: Well, we eat fish every day, every day,
A marathon work.
but I didn t expect to have so much fun on my journey.
whatever sphere of influence we have.
CA: So you re dependent on fish, both at the local level
The energy consumption of this typical tank here
but also governed by intellectual property.
and yet despite that, a few years ago you took a very radical step.
Can you tell us about that?
I think something happened right here in the Phoenix Islands.
is shifting beneath our feet.
In the Pacific, I think we own something like 60 percent
We are all the custodians of their self-esteem.
And Kiribati is one of the three major resource owners,
tuna resource owners.
Everybody thinks they know about education,
pulled from it by caring souls
it would be able to be recognized.
AT: National revenue,
which drives everything that we do
in the ordinary course of life,
I can assure you, politically, locally, it was not easy,
but I was convinced that we had to do this
this capacity to synthesize happiness,
There had been some indications that some of the species,
because he knows what he s doing.
The yellowfin was also heavily fished.
Skipjack remains healthy.
And so we had to do something like that, and so that was the reason I did that.
Sol had whooping cough.
was because I had been asking the international community
It s now owned, much of it by big industries.
that if we do that which we are not supposed to do,
So in asking the international community to make a sacrifice,
I thought we ourselves need to make that sacrifice.
And so we made the sacrifice.
And forgoing commercial fishing
in the Phoenix Islands protected area
would mean a loss of revenue.
We are still trying to assess what that loss would be
because we actually closed it off at the beginning of this year,
It s built, it s running and she just started a business today,
of that confidence in our work.
CA: So there s so many things playing into this.
On the one hand, it may prompt healthier fisheries.
that they need to live the lives they say they want to live
to fight malaria in my village.
AT: The negotiations have been very difficult,
Ladies and gentlemen,
For any vessel to come in to fish for a day,
we have raised the fee from -- it was $6,000 and $8,000,
But there was a problem.
and that I m not going to detail right now,
But at the same time, what s important to note is,
I mean, there are all sorts of things that will happen,
might be fishing in a day and maybe catch 10 tons,
now they re catching maybe 100 tons because they ve become so efficient.
is a force for good throughout the world.
We ve got to be very, very careful because the technology has so improved.
and combined it in the center, in the sort of subway map,
They couldn t.
it s kind of a mantra that wildlife is increasingly not safe in the wild.
But now they ve got ways of doing it, and they ve become so efficient.
this is the list of types of thing that qualify as damage,
Because you re up against companies
that have hundreds of millions of dollars at stake, essentially.
How do you hold the line?
Cell loss, mutations in chromosomes, mutations in the mitochondria and so on.
about how to get the most for your country,
get the most for the fish?
What advice would you give?
and Scott and his team of four people ended up on foot.
That is what we are all about.
because what we are getting from license fees
is about 10 percent of the landed value of the catch
on the side of the wharf, not in the retail shops.
And we only get about 10 percent.
What we have been trying to do over the years
is actually to increase our participation in the industry,
in the harvesting, in the processing,
and eventually, hopefully, the marketing.
They re not easy to penetrate,
but we are working towards that,
and yes, the answer would be to enhance.
In order to increase our rate of return, we have to become more involved.
And so we ve started doing that,
and we have to restructure the industry.
We ve got to tell these people that the world has changed.
Now we want to produce the fish ourselves.
but what is business like for them?
that s still what matters, that s always what s going to matter.
Or is that being run on a sustainable basis?
AT: For the artisanal fishery,
we do not participate in the commercial fishing activity
except only to supply the domestic market.
The tuna fishery is really entirely for the foreign market,
So I am a fisherman, very much,
and I used to be able to catch yellowfin.
Thank you. (Applause)
because they are being lifted out of the water by the hundreds of tons
by these purse seiners.
CA: So here s a couple of beautiful girls from your country.
I mean, as you think about their future,
what message would you have for them
and what message would you have for the world?
AT: Well, I ve been telling the world that we really have to do something
about what is happening to the climate
because for us, it s about the future of these children.
I have 12 grandchildren, at least.
I think I have 12, my wife knows.
(Laughter)
And I think I have eight children.
It s about their future.
Every day I see my grandchildren, about the same age as these young girls,
and I do wonder,
and I get angry sometimes, yes I do.
I wonder what is to become of them.
And so it s about them
that we should be telling everybody,
universal access to birth control that women want.
because climate change, regrettably, unfortunately,
is viewed by many countries as a national problem. It s not.
the next phase in an escalating cycle of counter-revenge,
the Australians and New Zealanders,
because they said,  We can t cut any more. 
This is what one of the leaders, the Australian leader, said,
that we ve done our part, we are cutting back.
I had to use a very small aperture to get the depth of field.
I think if Marianne and the members of her women s group
within your boundaries, within your borders,
we d have no question.
You can go ahead as much as you like.
But unfortunately, you re sending it our way,
and it s affecting the future of our children.
And so surely I think that is the heart of the problem of climate change today.
We will be meeting in Paris at the end of this year,
but until we can think of this as a global phenomenon,
because we create it, individually, as nations,
but it affects everybody else,
and yet, we refuse to do anything about it,
and we deal with it as a national problem,
which it is not -- it is a global issue,
and it s got to be dealt with collectively.
CA: People are incredibly bad at responding to graphs and numbers,
So, Melinda, in the last few years
Somehow, to people, we re slightly better at responding to that sometimes.
And it seems like it s very possible that your nation,
despite, actually because of the intense problems you face,
This is a line where they get the threads
most powerfully.
I just want to thank you, I m sure, on behalf of all of us,
for your extraordinary leadership and for being here.
I think that s one of the reasons we got ourselves in so much trouble
AT: Thank you.
(Applause)
So on my way here,
If you re playing a musical instrument and you notice a  p  in the score,
is the best of centuries or the worst of centuries.
I ve worked in broadcast.
in its creation, if it didn t just sort of materialize
that I started seeing these really intense,
pain, hunger, orgasms.
Don t argue, do as you re told.
We know much less about their treatment
The challenges were great.
And it s now not just the nuclear threat;
and helping it to allow the wounds to heal normally.
a piece for choir called  Cloudburst, 
and here are the things that puzzle me.
The first test of penicillin, the first antibiotic,
Softball players see the ball as smaller
contemporary building with these principles.
that could really describe what was going on at food banks.
as a best company for leaders,
and it is still, you ll find websites
It s unaffordable globally.
If you look inside the restrooms,
in several weeks at most.
MT: Well, as a matter of fact, it was on my sixth birthday
linkbait.
Two trillion a year.
And this kind of reaction ended up being the kind of reaction we saw
in a subtle but important way that really improved the story.
on the back of consumers massively overborrowing.
and we form a dead zone.
because what it illustrates
we may find differences.
Remote Operations Unit.
It s just impossible. 
than people who have weaker motivations.
how to read and write again,
it s really evocative.
why do we not have those treatments?
They have to be.
to respond to me, and my kids were small then,
because we can realize that their complexity is not random.
But nobody wanted to hire me.
you might want to know he s getting paid 5,000 dollars to perform spine surgery
so much of the credit goes to Dave Strudwick, who was
not always to look inwards, sometimes to look outwards.
(Laughter)
conducting patient treatments.
And this is kind of what has driven me forward with these pieces,
It s a bottom-up innovation, it s democratic,
And there s probably people in this audience
This is the Air Jordan 3 Black Cement.
This might be the most important sneaker in history.
I was a stutterer.
I was 21.
The Air Jordan 3 Black Cement did for sneakers
As it went off, I took off
It s been re-released four times.
in person or online, in any way we can,
There s a site about what to wear with the Black Cement.
of your leadership development programs.
(Laughter)
Some extraordinary things about sneakers
and data
and how they re all related, possibly, to the future of all online commerce.
At Microsoft Applied Sciences,
in the foothills of the Sierras.
and every shoe has a story
So what you see here
sexual abuse of women and girls as a weapon of war.
which who knows what that s going to be or why that s in my studio,
but for the careers and the families and the futures
I was keen among many other women to rebuild the Libyan civil society,
But this voice kept calling me:  Come on, stay with me. 
The design of this street is really
In a market where in the past 12 months,
I should know, I am a sneakerhead.
on a Friday evening,
to see in high-definition the city,
But I learned, because I had to,
just to play with for my own amusement.
The goal was to develop a price guide,
there are also unarmed people
Now sneakerheads check prices while camping out for releases.
a website for teenage girls
sneakerheads have sneaker portfolios.
Now I can use Allende, Allende, Allende,
Helplessly and hopelessly, I began to retreat
frankly, a modest collection.
At the asset level, he can see gain-loss by shoe.
So an unregulated 1.2 billion dollar industry
and has spawned fundamental financial services for sneakers?
At some point I asked myself what s really going on in the market,
you can see in the materials at hand,
as bicycles improved and became more aerodynamic
And now they use the data to do it together.
And that s because sneakers are an investment opportunity
where people are starting to trust businesses,
The cards are long dead,
but also unregulated.
(Video): Announcer: The time is 4 a.m.
it s not nearly the epidemic some media would have you believe.
to both the stock exchange and the illegal drug trade,
In the case of sneakers, that someone is Nike.
I wave no flags in my own life.
Just complete domination.
What do you do?
became the number two footwear brand in the country,
Yet, as has become strikingly clear
These are the people who know nature best.
That --
And by the third grade, the kids who didn t have
The sneaker market is just supply and demand,
They have something and they re going to hold on to it,
in 40 years hasn t closed the gender gap at the top
only this isn t a market at all.
It s a false construct created by Nike --
ingeniously created by Nike, in the most positive sense -- to sell more shoes.
And in the process,
it provided tens of thousands of people with life-long passions,
Now at first, I would have believed them.
and enable Nike to sell millions of $60 sneakers.
It s marketing.
and there will be a line down the street and around the block,
especially if there are dozens
But that means no efficiencies, no transparency,
sometimes not even authenticity.
Can you imagine if that s how stocks were bought?
What if the way to buy a share of Apple stock
It sounds more inflationary already, doesn t it.
if they knew they cheating would-be jihadists.
But what if that s not how we need to buy sneakers either?
What if the inverse is true,
A stock market of things.
And not only could you buy in a much more educated and efficient manner,
Because if you had invested in a pair of Air Jordan 3 Black Cement in 2011,
you could either be wearing them onstage,
(Laughter)
Thank you.
There s an old joke about a cop
and financial models immediately became apparent. 
that was both fascinating and quite inspiring.
and they re absolutely right insofar as 100 percent
because I couldn t give her a good answer.
the fighting began to approach outside our windows.
and what s obvious is, in the Alzheimer s brain,
We couldn t see a thing, but we knew what was happening.
Of course, I was supposed to be writing an article,
and I had just gotten accepted to a Ph.D. program at Cambridge University.
for the last 10 years is doing more harm than good,
So I was in my room on the 16th floor,
writing and looking out the window every now and then
to see what was happening.
Suddenly, there was a huge explosion.
During the previous three weeks,
there had been shelling with half-ton missiles,
but this time, the shock --
I felt it inside of me,
capable of changing the questions we want to ask,
It s very, very close. 
So I went down to see what was happening.
and influence, or you have to devote your entire
to take a look.
And I saw people, journalists, screaming in the hallways.
I walked into a room
and realized that it had been hit by a missile.
Someone had been wounded.
There was a man near the window,
a cameraman named Taras Protsyuk,
something that we call  compartmentalized flexibility. 
Having worked in a hospital before, I wanted to help out.
So I turned him over.
And when I turned him over,
I noticed that he was open from sternum to pubis,
Now, Niemöller is offering a certain kind of insight.
All I saw was a white, pearly, shiny spot that blinded me,
We think, because there are chemical hooks in heroin,
Once the spot disappeared and I could see his wound,
which was very serious,
my buddies and I put a sheet underneath him,
and even a bit of nose going on in there.
things like,  If you could be any kind of animal, what would you be? 
He died on the way to the hospital.
The Spanish cameraman José Couso, who was on the 14th floor and also hit --
died on the operating table.
As soon as the car left, I went back.
There was that article I was supposed to write --
which I had to write.
And so --
I returned to the hotel lobby with my arms covered in blood,
when one of the hotel gofers stopped me
and asked me to pay the tax I hadn t paid for 10 days.
I told him to get lost.
because I learned that I had been watched
If you want to write, you need to put it all aside. 
And that s what I did.
I went upstairs, wrote my article and sent it off.
Later, aside from the feeling of having lost my colleagues,
something else was bothering me.
I kept seeing that shiny, pearly spot,
and I couldn t understand what it meant.
And then, the war was over.
Later, I thought:  That s not possible. I can t just not know what happened. 
Because it wasn t the first time, and it didn t only happen to me.
I have seen things like that happen to others
in my 20 to 35 years of reporting.
I have seen things that had an effect on me too.
For example, there was this man I knew in Lebanon,
a 25-year-old veteran who had been fighting for five years --
a real veteran -- who we would follow everywhere.
He would crawl in the dark with confidence --
if we taught patients how not to demand antibiotics,
so we would follow him, knowing that we would be safe with him.
And one day, as I was told --
Now surprisingly, it seems to work.
he was back in the camp, playing cards,
when someone came in next door,
we love to use machines
As the gun went off,
that blast, that one shot, made him duck quickly under the table,
As digital technology makes things easier for movements,
He was shaking, panicking.
Could you learn to drive a car, for example,
He ended up working as a croupier
in a Beirut casino where I later found him,
because he couldn t sleep, so it was quite a suitable job.
So I thought to myself,
 What is this thing that can kill you
without leaving any visible scars?
How does that happen?
It was too common to be coincidental.
so steam and things.
This is a college student s suggestion
I started to investigate
And the telephone. The telephone.
reaching out to psychiatrists,
going to museums, libraries, etc.
Finally, I discovered that some people knew about this --
a surfer, industrial designer, wetsuit designer,
and that what we were dealing with was called trauma.
Americans call it PTSD or traumatic neurosis.
It was something
misunderstood creatures. Volunteer your time
but that we never spoke about.
So, this trauma --
what is it?
Well, it s an encounter with death.
I don t know if you ve ever had an experience with death --
I m not talking about dead bodies,
or someone s grandfather lying in a hospital bed,
or someone who got hit by a car.
I m going to make sure that fewer people
And that is something no one is supposed to see.
People used to say,
 Neither the sun, nor death can be looked at with a steady eye. 
A human being should not have to face the void of death.
But when that happens,
it can remain invisible for a while --
days, weeks, months, sometimes years.
And then, at some point,
it explodes,
because it s something that has entered your brain --
a sort of window between an image and your mind --
that has penetrated your brain,
And the reason is that you take it for granted.
And there are people -- men, women,
with people much more rational than you.
And they experience horrible anxiety attacks --
panic attacks, not just minor fears.
They suddenly don t want to sleep,
because when they do, they have the same nightmare every night.
They see the same image every night.
What type of image?
For example, a soldier who enters a building
and comes face to face with another soldier aiming at him.
you ll notice that the five senses theory
And this barrel suddenly becomes enormous, deformed.
It becomes fluffy, swallowing everything.
And he says --
later he will say,  I saw death.
I saw myself dead, therefore I m dead. 
And from then on, he knows he is dead.
It is not a perception -- he is convinced that he is dead.
In reality, someone came in, the guy left or didn t shoot, whatever,
and he didn t actually get shot --
but to him, he died in that moment.
Or it can be the smell of a mass grave --
I saw a lot of that in Rwanda.
It can be the voice of a friend calling,
within the Linux operating system, which sub-parts
You hear that voice,
and you wake up every night -- for weeks, months --
like a child.
I have seen men cry --
just like children --
from seeing the same image.
So having that image of horror in your brain,
seeing the void of death --
that analogue of horror which is hiding something --
will completely take over.
and I refused to accept that punishment.
You cannot work anymore,
The problem is, imagine if we
You go home and don t recognize anyone.
You don t even recognize yourself.
from grandmother to little girl, gathered around a baby,
I know people who placed small cans outside their house with coins inside,
in case someone tried to get in.
All of a sudden, you feel like you want to die or kill
or hide or run away.
You want to be loved, but you hate everyone.
It s a feeling that seizes you entirely
day in and day out,
and you suffer tremendously.
And no one understands.
They say,  There s nothing wrong with you. You seem fine, you have no injuries.
You went to war, came back; you re fine. 
These people suffer tremendously.
Some commit suicide.
After all, suicide is like updating your daily planner --
I m already dead, I might as well commit suicide.
Plus, there is no more pain.
Some commit suicide, others end up under the bridge, drinking.
Everyone remembers that grandfather or uncle or neighbor
He was extremely happy to be with this rabbit.
always in a bad mood, beat his wife
and who would end up either sinking into alcoholism or dying.
And why do we not talk about this?
Maybe I wanted to believe it.
It s not like we don t have the words to express the void of death.
But others don t want hear it.
The first time I returned from an assignment,
They said,  Oh! He s back. 
You can click on that red  refresh  button.
 Tell us everything! 
Fast forward through the  90s,
After 20 minutes, people were giving me dirty looks,
the hostess had her nose in the ashtray.
It was horrible and I realized I ruined the whole evening.
So I don t talk about it anymore.
We re just not ready to listen.
People say outright:  Please, stop. 
Is that a rare occurrence?
No, it s extremely common.
One third of the soldiers who died in Iraq --
It turns out he s a member of the Russian Adult Webmasters Federation.
one third of the US soldiers who went to Iraq
[ No dogs and Chinese allowed ]
In 1939, there were still 200,000 soldiers from the First World War
that were being treated in British psychiatric hospitals.
In Vietnam, 54,000 people died --
Americans.
In 1987, the US government identified 102,000 --
twice as many --
102,000 veterans who died from committing suicide.
Twice as many deaths by suicide than by combat in Vietnam.
So you see, this relates to everything,
not just modern warfare, but also ancient wars --
you can read about it, the evidence is there.
loves her husband,
to share this only with people that we want to share this with,
you re heading for disaster.
The only way to heal --
and the good news here is that this is treatable --
think Munch s The Scream, Goya, etc. --
(Applause)
The only way to heal from this trauma,
from this encounter with death that overwhelms, petrifies and kills you
People used to say,
 Language is the only thing that holds all of us together. 
it s both wrong and also okay at the same time.
It s the thing that makes us human.
In the face of such a horrible image --
a wordless image of oblivion that obsesses us --
the only way to cope with it
is to put human words to it.
Because these people feel excluded from humanity.
No one wants to see them anymore and they don t want to see anyone.
They feel dirty, defiled, ashamed.
Someone said,  Doctor, I don t use the subway anymore
because I m afraid people will see the horror in my eyes. 
Another guy thought he had a terrible skin disease
and spent six months with dermatologists, going from doctor to doctor.
and Jovita is volunteering at the police unit
During his second session, he told the psychiatrist
he had a terrible skin disease from head to toe.
The psychiatrist asked,  Why are you in this state? 
And the man said,  Well, because I m dead, so I must be rotting away. 
 Death is not an event in life:
In order to heal, we need to talk about it.
that he has to press the left cage to basically get a reward.
human words, so we can organize it and talk about it again.
We have to look death in the face.
And if we can do that, if we can talk about these things,
then step by step, by working it out verbally,
we can reclaim our place in humanity.
And it is important.
Silence kills us.
So what does this mean?
It means that after a trauma,
without question, we lose our  unbearable lightness of being, 
that sense of immortality that keeps us here --
meaning, if we re here, we almost feel like we re immortal, which we re not,
but if we didn t believe that, we d say,  What s the point of it all? 
But trauma survivors have lost that feeling of immortality.
They ve lost their lightness.
But they have found something else.
So this means that if we manage to look death in the face,
and actually confront it, rather than keep quiet and hide,
like some of the men or women I know did,
such as Michael from Rwanda, Carole from Iraq, Philippe from the Congo
and other people I know,
I can live in duality, and I can hold two things.
for success in mathematics,
Five friends of mine committed suicide,
they re the ones who did not survive the trauma.
So if we can look death in the face,
if we, mortal humans, human mortals,
understand that we are human and mortal, mortal and human,
if we can confront death and identify it once again
as the most mysterious place of all mysterious places,
since no one has ever seen it --
if we can give it back this meaning,
yes, we may die,
survive
and come back to life,
but we ll come back stronger than before.
Much stronger.
Thank you.
and that would have been a problem,
But he explained to me that he was in a bind,
than any other sector of our society.
I thought perhaps if I was hanging on long enough,
And so it s sad to say,
I said I was going to be the first female President of the United States.
and for my course.
And the creator very considerately
what has been a lifetime of both dreams and denial
I m just kidding.
After a while, I got a bit —
There are going to be those individuals
I would never be rescued.
and the classic example is what happened
Today, much of Mexican society is in denial
what it means to align your body posture
At some level, we know that there are human hands
psychologically, sexually, spiritually, emotionally abused --
I was completely powerless to change anything in my life
that light can work with simple senses and physical objects
that we were teaching
I was shocked and filled with disbelief.
but I still think that we learn who we are
Those arguments don t work, and I know because I remember
and everything we believe in, because we re not stupid.
that you can vote with only one hand.
So if we take food security, for example.
And working in the Pantanal has been extremely refreshing
and find work. 
(Laughter)
That was what was of interest to us next.
But meanwhile, where are all the females?
and try to respect each other while still holding boundaries clear.
I didn t paint myself yellow and run around with these spears and loincloths.
the fragile planet below.
But, like most women,
that mobile telecommunications connected them
and they are very slowly closing that gap between men and women
I heard a child crying above my head,
to fight same-sex marriage in California.
which are the rhythms that help us to wake and sleep
We want to see the whole thing,
And then we asked them again,
The really nice thing about this is the moment I opened --
And so if we think of bone,
should stand for,
Even in places like India and Japan,
This is more the direction that we re going to go.
Exercise teaches your brain that your behavior matters.
with the glaring exception of sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia.
Al Jazeera offered him a job.
So whenever I visit a school and talk to students,
I always ask them the same thing:
Why do you Google?
Why is Google the search engine of choice for you?
It s set in Montreal some 50 years in the future.
One,  Because it works, 
which is a great answer; that s why I Google, too.
and their high image of you.
both of whom have taken the command  speak 
It s not an equally great answer and my reply to that is usually,
 Try to Google the word  search engine, 
you may find a couple of interesting alternatives. 
And last but not least, thirdly,
three things happened at the same time.
 With Google, I m certain to always get the best, unbiased search result. 
Certain to always get the best, unbiased search result.
Now, as a man of the humanities,
albeit a digital humanities man,
that just makes my skin curl,
which is enough to cover about half of the car trips
is a cornerstone in our collective love for and appreciation of Google.
I will show you why that, philosophically, is almost an impossibility.
and it wasn t allowed to be in a dictionary.
So whenever you set out to Google something,
start by asking yourself this:  Am I looking for an isolated fact? 
What is the capital of France?
What are the building blocks of a water molecule?
funeral ceremonies are a raucous affair,
There s not a group of scientists who are this close to proving
that it s actually London and H30.
You don t see a big conspiracy among those things.
We agree, on a global scale,
750 million numbers.
because that s the way my mom taught me.
 Why is there an Israeli-Palestine conflict? 
You re not exactly looking for a singular fact anymore,
you re looking for knowledge,
which is something way more complicated and delicate.
 Hurry, nurse, bring the vagina! 
you have to bring 10 or 20 or 100 facts to the table
and acknowledge them and say,  Yes, these are all true. 
This was the first time I d encountered this idea
young or old, black or white, gay or straight,
I will value them differently.
And I will say,  Yes, this is true,
And this is where it becomes interesting,
It is essential to this part of the syllabus.
This is when we start to argue, to form society.
And to really get somewhere, we need to filter all our facts here,
through friends and neighbors and parents and children
and coworkers and newspapers and magazines,
We used it in the 19th century to build art museums.
which is something that a search engine is a poor help to achieve.
So, I promised you an example just to show you why it s so hard
to get to the point of true, clean, objective knowledge --
as food for thought.
I will conduct a couple of simple queries, search queries.
We ll start with  Michelle Obama, 
the First Lady of the United States.
And we ll click for pictures.
It works really well, as you can see.
It s a perfect search result, more or less.
It s just her in the picture, not even the President.
which they did, and then they shopped that disk
 The best thing that never happened because it led to us.”
And then I looked it up and they do drill into people s brains.
There s a cave
A few more weeks without rain,
Does it say  Michelle Obama  under the picture?
Pretty good indication it s actually her on there.
not like just a stick of dynamite, but you re directing it at the ship.
Pretty good indication it s not Clint Eastwood in the picture.
So, you ve got those two and you get a search result like this -- almost.
Now, in 2009, Michelle Obama was the victim of a racist campaign,
where people set out to insult her through her search results.
and I think this impression is pretty powerful.
where her face was distorted to look like a monkey.
And that picture was published all over.
have chosen to show themselves to earthlings
and it s the states that are going to have to act.
They made sure to write  Michelle Obama  in the caption
Think of it like this.
You get why -- to manipulate the search result.
And it worked, too.
We all shared a bedroom
than a closed photobioreactor system,
Now, the results are self-cleansing,
and that s sort of the beauty of it,
because Google measures relevance every hour, every day.
However, Google didn t settle for that this time,
they just thought,  That s racist and it s a bad search result
and we re going to go back and clean that up manually.
led us so far astray.
which they did.
And I don t think anyone in this room thinks that was a bad idea.
Me neither.
But then, a couple of years go by,
and the world s most-Googled Anders,
And there were many, many others.
and most powerful incentive pushing decision-making
They nest and they mate and they breed in these old-growth swamps
and a terrible day in Norwegian history.
This man, a terrorist, blew up a couple of government buildings
walking distance from where we are right now in Oslo, Norway
and then he traveled to the island of Utøya
and shot and killed a group of kids.
Almost 80 people died that day.
And a lot of people would describe this act of terror as two steps,
that he did two things: he blew up the buildings and he shot those kids.
It was three steps.
He blew up those buildings, he shot those kids,
and he sat down and waited for the world to Google him.
They were only tried by a secret court.
And if there was somebody who immediately understood this,
it was a Swedish web developer,
a search engine optimization expert in Stockholm, named Nikke Lindqvist.
He s also a very political guy
and he was right out there in social media, on his blog and Facebook.
And he told everybody,
 If there s something that this guy wants right now,
it s to control the image of himself.
(Applause)
Let s see if we, in the civilized world, can protest against what he did
through insulting him in his search results. 
And how?
He told all of his readers the following,
 Go out there on the Internet,
find pictures of dog poop on sidewalks --
find pictures of dog poop on sidewalks --
publish them in your feeds, on your websites, on your blogs.
And so I walked to the counter,
make sure to name the picture file  Breivik.jpeg. 
scrollbars, the desktop with icons that look like folders
And it worked.
Two years after that campaign against Michelle Obama,
this manipulation campaign against Anders Behring Breivik worked.
If you picture-Googled for him weeks after the July 22 events from Sweden,
you d see that picture of dog poop high up in the search results,
as a little protest.
Strangely enough, Google didn t intervene this time.
through quantum tunneling, will be transformed
So the million-dollar question,
is there anything different between these two happenings here?
If your work bombed, not entirely your fault, you know?
Of course not.
It s the exact same thing,
yet Google intervened in one case and not in the other.
Why?
Because Michelle Obama is an honorable person, that s why,
and Anders Behring Breivik is a despicable person.
See what happens there?
An evaluation of a person takes place
and there s only one power-player in the world
with the authority to say who s who.
 We like you, we dislike you.
We believe in you, we don t believe in you.
You re right, you re wrong. You re true, you re false.
You re Obama, and you re Breivik. 
That s power if I ever saw it.
to help you dive into the things you don t know.
is always a person,
a person with a set of personal beliefs
that no code can ever completely eradicate.
And my message goes out not only to Google,
but to all believers in the faith of code around the world.
You need to identify your own personal bias.
of intelligence by Indian firms.
(Claps)
when it s absolutely imperative
that we tie those bonds together again, tighter:
the humanities and the technology.
Tighter than ever.
And, if nothing else, to remind us that that wonderfully seductive idea
of the unbiased, clean search result
is, and is likely to remain, a myth.
A humpback can transmit a sound
(Applause)
Charles Van Doren, who was later a senior editor of Britannica,
So I ve been working on the history of income
by either visiting Disneyland
and I sort of presented myself to them in the doorway, and they said,
In truth, I wondered if they were right.
Of course, there are gay people in Asia,
But is the idea of living an  out  life,
kind of way just a Western idea?
many of them had turned cynical, disengaged,
Lisa Dazols: I had similar notions.
we were being asked,
(Laughter)
I got stuck and I made it through.
just for being gay,
because you find that new followers emulate the followers, not the leader.
I saw how this had beaten them down.
by the architects Herzog and de Meuron.
I needed better stories for myself.
I knew the world was far from perfect,
And our goal, the core aim of the Wikimedia Foundation,
So we set off on a mission to travel the world
and look for the people we finally termed as the  Supergays. 
who were doing something extraordinary in the world.
and most of all, proud of who they were.
the sprawl of Mexico City.
Our plan was to share their stories to the world through film.
(Laughter)
That s the temperature that s associated with dangerous impacts
so we just had to trust that we d figure it all out along the way.
countries outside the West that varied in terms of LGBT rights.
And it can t result in healthy sexuality
ordered a book on how to make a documentary --
that we re trying to save ourselves.
everyone said I had changed. They asked me,
and now recently, a devastating earthquake,
found that nine percent of those surveyed
A beautiful, vibrant transgendered woman,
Bhumika has had to overcome being expelled from school
because of where I come from.
to protect against LGBT discrimination.
Here s Bhumika:
And what s interesting about this
I m a transgendered person.
If you lose a lot of weight,
On December 21, 2007,
but they could just swim like fish.
and they came across this image.
LD: I can appreciate Bhumika s confidence on a daily basis.
Traveling throughout Asia,
I had to come up with a strategy, so that I could just pee in peace.
(Laughter)
So anytime I would enter a restroom,
I would thrust out my chest to show my womanly parts,
I can t be anything else.
Because that animator was allowed to share
Now obviously, taste and smell are quite high,
when they thought no one was watching.
We have even done symbolic burials.
where the women s status is established in society.
than a garment that at one end is a noose and the other end points to the genitals?
The complexity of the music does become an issue,
This is the freaky side coming out.
And if that is the normal state of affairs,
and talked to him about why he decided to come out so very publicly.
Here he is:
for Valentine s Day,
And that instigated me to come out openly and talk about myself.
so over time we ll have this repository of things
Gay rights cannot be won in the court rooms,
but in the hearts and the minds of the people.
JC: While getting my hair cut,
in love with neuroscience. I wanted to become a surgeon.
and she asked me a lot of questions about my parents  reactions
And there s perhaps no more stressful a situation
I told her that there are no limitations to my life
What I actually said is they re not contentious at all.
as yet another crazy Westerner.
that we interviewed in India.
You don t. But you do look for,
to derive the kinds of satisfactions from their work that we take for granted.
we basically take a look at
(Laughter)
And in that ordinary afternoon,
I had the chance to introduce an entire beauty salon
In Kenya, 89 percent of people who come out to their families
and stop the accumulation of side effects
In Kenya, we met the soft-spoken David Kuria.
of today s factory workers in the U.S.
David wanted to run his campaign without denying the reality of who he was.
And, yeah,
and they feel that they are doing a religious obligation.
to go to Chihuahua,
as opposed to one.
We have Hubway here in Boston, the Vélib  system in Paris.
The next spring, it didn t form two communities
helped us to clean, sort and label
than here in the US.
In 2010, Argentina became the first country in Latin America
we see that we all struggle and we all suffer.
There, we met María Rachid.
the effects of marriage equality
They are for a lot of people that, even though they may never get married,
that a gun is not some macho instrument to brag about.
in a whole range of different languages.
I feel very proud of Argentina
And hopefully soon,
So if we continue on this red, four-degree centigrade scenario pathway,
JC: When we made the visit to my ancestral lands,
 Huh, did you find any unexpected heroes? 
(Video) One, two, three. Welcome gays to Shanghai!
and I think I was hoping that it might somehow inoculate me from heartache.
Sure, they had their struggles.
But they were fighting it out.
only 18,000 are believed to still be left in Yarmouk.
and tell them our story in my broken Mandarin Chinese.
Maybe in the airplane, we can overcome jet lag like that.
And we learned that Asia s largest LGBT pride event
If only my parents knew.
LD: By the time we finished our not-so-straight journey around the world,
(Laughter)
Traceability is a way where the seafood industry
and logged 120 hours of video footage.
We traveled to 15 countries
and we don t know what is the potential of this plant,
JC: Yes, there are still tragedies that happen
But once it starts moving throughout the body, that s when it becomes deadly.
And let s not forget that 75 countries still criminalize homosexuality today.
something that is changing,
in every corner of the world.
What we ultimately took away from our journey is,
equality is not a Western invention.
LD: One of the key factors in this equality movement is momentum,
momentum as more and more people embrace their full selves
PM: I know that s what you re telling your daughter. SS: Absolutely.
 We re all too busy for this inefficient system
and momentum as more and more countries
his name circulated
When Nepal protected against LGBT discrimination,
India pushed harder.
Uruguay and Brazil followed.
(Applause)
When the US Supreme Court makes a statement to the world
will not only help us to get rid of the digital divide,
(Applause)
what we realized is that we were watching a love story.
It wasn t a love story that was expected of me,
The tools and the software: there s lots of tools that allow us --
One year after returning home from our trip,
has been a classically Arcadian movement.
(Laughter)
If any of you have ever gone tandem skydiving,
by the state of California
You may kiss.
(Applause)
the infectious disease that s killed more humans
(Music ends)
but there was the perception that they did.
(Distorted guitar music starts)
(Music ends)
(Applause)
(Ambient/guitar music starts)
(Music ends)
I would like to demonstrate for the first time in public
Number one:
to a solar cell with a laptop acting as a receiver.
black and white, Caribbean,
And you may wonder, what s the point?
There will be a massive extension of the Internet
to close the digital divide,
tens of billions of devices connected to the Internet.
and how this journey that began
This means we need to use existing infrastructure as much as possible.
And this is where the solar cell and the LED come in.
Leading innovation is not about creating a vision,
at TED in 2011,
It is beautiful, gold standard. Love it.
Data is transported by the light,
If we look around, we have many LEDs around us,
But so far, we have been using special devices -- small photo detectors,
because of its massive power to have vital gases exchanged
And this is why I have been looking into solar cells and solar panels.
A solar cell absorbs light and converts it into electrical energy.
This is why we can use a solar cell to charge our mobile phone.
and turned the hotel parking lot into our own water-filled battle zone.
This means we have a principal mechanism in place
So I m going to show you now first what we found in the offices,
Of course the question is:
How have we not made the connection?
And the answer to that is yes, we can.
and on the other side of those mountains
Bear with me.
And this is faster than most broadband connections these days.
And young people of the Arab world have awakened one morning,
In this box is a standard, off-the-shelf LED lamp.
Can you imagine? Now let s, we can see that s a traditional
And each of those life stages not only looks totally different from each other,
That was filmed from a helicopter
So it s conceivable, if God were to exist,
are getting feedback from accelerometers and gyros on board,
If I turn it off, we see it drops.
But next I would like to activate the streaming of the video.
of many of the trans-border informal flows
a certain band of winds that could eventually
and in a way that you can t recognize with your eye,
and it was a lot of work.
But in order to prove the point,
So first you notice the energy harvesting drops
to what they called  adverse childhood experiences,  or ACEs.
their family rabbi called to check on me.
But now imagine that this LED lamp is a street light, and there s fog.
And so I want to simulate fog,
First you notice
Do you want to roll the film?
This means, despite the blockage,
This visualization was done by an Italian academic.
So this is clearly bad news for Reuther.
But it s been happening for centuries:
That s why it is possible
So this one is the real one.
So we went in there with a search warrant and about two hours after we went in,
It was the moment that my parents became very old.
And the same is true
and we conducted our entire conversation in English,
By miracles, I mean things that are
Actually, we found 100 percent is easier to do
As a documentary photographer,
wrote a book called  God Is Not Great 
which means wild animals like zebras
And my father smiled and said,
As a child, I had a pretty normal life:
I have dedicated the past 20 years of my life
Because -- goodness, you re all cheery about failing.
What was amazing about their generation
that I think embody this philosophy.
I ve been questioning myself about the real contributions I have made
there s a literature inside of each of us,
Am I being effective
in safeguarding their survival?
In fact, it s all about frostbite and having difficulty walking,
And you all have chosen your own instruments
We all know that. It s all over the news every day.
And, of course, he never talked about his past life
and divide the surface into two surfaces.
They were told to take me home and try to keep me comfortable
the largest terrestrial mammal of South America.
they re uncomfortable with the topic because it s about sex.
are in touch with each other.
in the proposition that there are two kinds of people in the world,
Tapirs are mostly found in tropical forests such as the Amazon,
But their habitat is being destroyed,
and think about what it would mean
And the reason I think you might be wondering this
had to -- finally -- give equal monies to boys and girls.
the extinction of tapirs would seriously affect
and I want to talk about creativity.
and it was a pioneer research and conservation program.
I speak broken English so the profusing gashes can remind us
and we got started getting very basic data about these animals.
What we wanted to do is we wanted to make a fuel
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change,
We need field research.
We need those long-term datasets to support conservation action,
You can t see her, because she s buried
rather than disease, medicine, target.
And then we can gather information about how they use space,
and will probably last a lifetime.
So can you imagine the situation --
in his past, he killed two policemen
Next, we must disseminate what we learn.
We have to educate people about tapirs
And it s amazing how many people around the world
when two billion people use your brands
You can t imagine your life without classical music.
 By which year do you think there is a 50 percent probability
and they would bring the conversation around to
And then next we have to provide training, capacity building.
under the name of  manioc. 
I spend some time just reflecting on what went right,
we must be able to apply our data,
Now, when men first hear about gender equality,
Now, a central issue with working memory
one of the most threatened biomes in the world.
The destruction of the Atlantic Forest
when you get these things that take hundreds of millions of years to evolve?
is still left standing.
And it s not important because you can buy components at a lower price, OK?
of pastureland and agriculture
It can even have a pixel or two missing.
in between those patches of forest,
in Seoul, Korea.
so that tapirs and many other animals could cross the landscape safely.
in 2008, we expanded our tapir conservation efforts to the Pantanal
and ready to get behind this totally uncontroversial idea.
near the border with Bolivia and Paraguay.
The classic example is people who are, perhaps, a little bit overweight
We need you to raise awareness that Alzheimer s is a disease
and one of the most important strongholds for lowland tapirs in South America.
and we have been able to study tapirs
having the peers actually be able to interact with each other,
we also had community partners in Haiti working to develop the process,
This camera is equipped with a movement sensor
and it photographs animals when they walk in front of it.
because then you have more potential caretakers,
My heart rate was very low
when you re trying to develop those conservation strategies.
And right now, 2015, we are expanding our work once again
to the Brazilian Cerrado,
Today this region is the very epicenter of economic development in my country,
including once again cattle ranching,
poaching, roadkill, just to name a few.
which gives me a lot of hope.
to miss an opportunity.
When you drive around
So every year, instead of just teaching our students, we have a wellness week.
and you talk to kids and they tell you that they know how tapir meat tastes
it really breaks your heart.
The situation in the Cerrado made me realize --
it gave me the sense of urgency.
I am swimming against the tide.
♪ Hovering light ♪
I was able to double my contribution.
to fall asleep, or to stay awake.
One of the main concerns and excuses for not getting vaccinated
We really do, and you know what?
arbitrary amounts of personal information.
so we just came up with the idea of putting reflective stickers
So another environmental challenge
For now, this is just a crazy idea.
These actually are sold as artwork. They re very big prints.
But the point is, maybe this is the kind of stuff that needs to be done.
And although I m struggling with all these questions
and the time we actually started answering the questions.
What are our genes? 
so he can go ahead and hand off the toy and change the person,
A new era is coming,
were trying to collect together all of the data from all
And I ll keep doing this for Patrícia, my namesake,
one of the first tapirs we captured and monitored in the Atlantic Forest
And by that, what they mean is rocket science is really complicated
And I ll keep doing this for Ted, a baby tapir we captured
in December last year also in the Pantanal.
(Laughter)
for the hundreds of tapirs that I ve had the pleasure to meet
And you know? We human beings deserve to live in a world
where we can get out there and see and benefit from
now and in the future.
to these kinds of situations.
Audience: Aye.
Every day, I listen to harrowing stories of people fleeing for their lives,
But there s one story that keeps me awake at night,
that normally comes with what people would call,
in an age where reputation will be your most valuable asset.
And a few years ago, I was looking at some of the addicts in my life who I love,
And the community that once welcomed them there
In his most famous book,  Pedagogy of the Oppressed, 
On the right, ancient Gothic,
And actually, our political beliefs also
I was emotionally feeling very isolated.
The way you measure nanotechnology is in nanometers,
In France, voter turnout hit a record low.
It was a Saturday morning when the call came,
And another environmental challenge is resources,
There were Syrians, Palestinians, Africans, Muslims and Christians,
and Masa, 18 months.
Bassem holding her hand.
(Laughter) MM: Awesome. Thank you.
but if there are no clouds,
over 10 billion dollars.
He told them to shut up, and he insulted them.
and I want to share some more of that story with you today
So the boat sped away in anger,
But we know how to fix this.
Three: Sinew used in the outer layer of the limb
The 300 people below deck were doomed.
with the Royal Philharmonic Pops.
and she held the clitoris, and she cut it off.
and I invented a system called Enterprise Facilitation,
that they use to play in swimming pools and on calm seas.
 I fear I am not going to survive.
I m too weak. I don t have the courage anymore. 
Infidelity shatters the grand ambition of love.
Millions of refugees are living in exile, in limbo.
not just looking for combinations of words and links
Even if they wanted to return, they can t.
would be one in 10,000: 10 to the fourth power.
I was shocked by how at home I felt.
JC: Hands down. IA: No, it s makeup.
on the notice board.
The Syria war has driven almost four million people over the borders,
and he knows exactly how to deal with it,
It was their second day, and Bassem was getting very weak.
probably aren t going to give you everything
And he released himself into the water,
my voice was stolen from me,
the normal acinus and the ugly tumor.
Basically what it told me was —
And then she went away and drowned.
Now when it comes to taxes, there is more disagreement.
It s just a little bit of fluffy stuff. It s not a big deal.
(Applause)
It s a very vestigial system.
she said to the sobbing child,
she looked up into the sky with hope,
I have just given you
What we have to look at is at how we
That s why Olu says,  I m German, but my parents come from Nigeria. 
♪ that you make me lose everything I know ♪
And they told her the little baby did not survive --
But Doaa was sure that as they had been pulled up onto the rescue boat,
Only 11 people survived that wreck, of the 500.
but online, technologically enhanced shaming is amplified,
 Don t give us any of that self-actualization stuff.
And soon the Greek press started reporting about the miracle baby,
and offers to adopt her came from all over the country.
You ll see that these measurements start
that ran through three neighborhoods
This was from Masa s uncle,
and until then, she s being cared for in a beautiful orphanage in Athens.
The Academy of Athens, one of Greece s most prestigious institutions,
and she deserves all that praise,
what if she didn t have to take that risk?
Why did she have to go through all that?
In 1990, she was asked this question.
I m going to whip through this quickly,
Why is there so little investment in the neighboring countries
And why, the root question,
And if you just become informed and change a few simple habits,
to the shores of Europe?
Well, that is largely Europe s choice.
And I understand the public fears.
But is that more important than saving human lives?
And no migrant would take that dangerous journey
And no one would put their life savings
and that s because this technological horizon,
Could we be inspired by what happened,
and try something new for 30 days.
It s been a good run.
and you look down and you see these hundreds of little villages,
I found myself waking each morning in misty Seattle
or making Valentine s Day cards for senior citizens who are homebound.
of Professor Stephen Hawking.
We collected 200,000 jars of peanut butter
and over 365,000 Valentine s Day cards.
This is big scale. OK --
But there s one weird side effect.
Every time we send out a text message,
I m interested in how we access that information,
by an RFID chip that was sewn in the suit.
which it s not.
We couldn t believe this was happening.
We couldn t believe that something so horrific could happen to a human being,
and that she would share it with us -- something so intimate, so personal.
and we had to build a crisis text line for these people in pain.
and moved its way into the larger industry,
Just to put that into perspective,
that s zero marketing and faster growth than when Facebook first launched.
and look like an aggressive hulk.
(Laughter)
with my friends, with people.
and the use of our very versatile hands.
And we don t get the word  like  or  um  or hyperventilating or crying.
We just get facts.
then that same climate change impact could be devastating.
And so the crisis counselor says,
And the crisis counselor gets the girl to give her her address,
The first thing I want to do is start with a graph.
the person that has the bakery down the street.
We live in one world.
23 minutes with no response from this girl.
And the next message that comes in says --
such that a loss is followed by a loss
To begin with, I came to work with this virus
As a mom that one just --
 I just got out of the hospital.
known as a federal habeas corpus proceeding.
Thirty percent of our text messages are about suicide and depression -- huge.
and faces and objects for hours.
I took him to Los Angeles to meet a foundation officer
and getting them from hot moments to cold moments.
in less than two years.
He had these two women who were traveling with him
Now, because the sea has a greater thermal inertia than the land,
the thing that really gets me psyched is the data:
or else in a nearby hut near their children,
that s the volume, velocity and variety to provide a really juicy corpus.
(Laughter) (Applause)
So how do we use the data to make us better?
Alright, chances are someone here, someone watching this
are used to control the behavior of these children,
(Laughter)
How do you know that person s any good?
and incapable of establishing any kind of peace or reconciliation.
(Laughter)
I thought she was a genius when she said,
 I ll see you guys in two weeks -- but I need to see you next week, sir. 
We know that if you text the words  numbs  and  sleeve, 
there s a 99 percent match for cutting.
We know that if you text in the words  mg  and  rubber band, 
And who would have guessed that the programming
 99 percent match for cutting -- try asking one of these questions 
My own relationship was only a few months old,
Or  99 percent match for substance abuse,
in the past, that sort of tailed off now.
It makes us more accurate.
something radically different.
I add new images,
the temperature begins to rise at the center of each cloud,
that I had heard the word  teach ourselves  said so casually.
We had a spike in volume also.
The difference was
Of course in meditation --
over me using your data like that.
(Applause)
This data is also making the world better
because I m sitting on the world s first map of real-time crises.
But that can t be right.
all of these data points --
but you do not want to live there,
if we can push those limits a bit.
It suggests that you and I should rebuild trust.
Because I want schools to be able to see
And I want families to see that substance abuse questions spike at 5am.
(Applause)
what exactly those genes are.
makes policy, research,
for administrative functions,
where people are put in the sun to get better.
I get really excited about this data, I m a little nerdy.
Yeah, that sounded too girly.
With a thousand Juliáns working together,
And the only difference really between me and those people in hoodies down the road
you get out of the car, you park at your destination,
I think all of you received one of these music books in your gift pack.
or swipe right and get laid.
I m inspired --
I want to use tech and data to make the world a better place.
when she was in a car accident where she lost her leg,
And my laptop runs slower, less reliably and less pleasantly
doing our best to inspire over a million young people in person
This is another reason, I think,
it was so quick, there was nothing to see.
(Applause)
I only know nine Lovegroves, two of which are my parents.
but if you live in a country like the United States,
during a recent storm.
and it was cold.
I couldn t go back to my friend Jeff s house for the night
I was five years old, clutching the hand of my nine-year-old sister
So, desperate and freezing cold,
I found a large rock and I broke through the basement window,
and so for the next several years Will lived with his older brother,
I could call my contractor and ask him to fix it.
This was going to be expensive,
but probably no more expensive than a middle-of-the-night locksmith,
so I figured, under the circumstances, I was coming out even.
can only appear because there is also darkness in that same building.
powers this printer, is a project
that the real goal of family planning is to control populations.
and the meetings I had upcoming in Europe,
that I realized I didn t have my passport.
and of many governments
So I raced home in the snow and ice, 40 minutes,
but they had given away my seat to someone else,
in fact, more fundamentally than that --
in a seat that wouldn t recline, on an eight-hour flight.
you re a scientist, you re not like me --
Today, we re using small quads.
we seek to place trust in a differentiated way.
will minimize the likelihood of it being a total catastrophe.
that some of the children were distressed,
Around the home, designate a place for things that are easily lost.
But the telescopes we ve used over the last decade
that evolved over tens of thousands of years,
Being stealth and untraceable.
we use something that happens in nature: waves.
and it s very wasteful;
and they could still find their nuts.
You know, we live in an age where we are so used
mail it to yourself so it s in the cloud.
If these things are lost or stolen, you can facilitate replacement.
We also need to help small farmers --
In my lab, as we developed these robots,
to be laid down over the damaged nerves.
This is another sample I have.
because the things that are causing the pathology
I m sure we can all think of a lot of entertainment apps
didn t know who I was
There s something special about the structure -- the order --
kidney failure, diabetes, hypertension, osteoarthritis --
They were hung and then decapitated.
Right at this same time, I m signing and hugging after a gig,
more valuable to society
my female company had to let the men in.
That s the wonderful richness of life.
A photo is a reminder of someone or something,
a study that was done of investments in voluntary retirement plans.
for a number of things that we knew were both related
and have many fewer actions to imitate
But you should ask at this point for another statistic,
And hope is the one thing that we, Aaron s friends,
was one of these Muslim volunteers from east Jerusalem
not to mention all Mexican people --
we all pretend to be an idol for someone else, but actually
And that ended up being a better joke than slushies,
and I don t like the word,  his,  either, because that sexualizes God. 
And what about, just, the whole economic structure?
Leadership is a choice. It is not a rank.
That is, at stage 3 or 4,
And you also want to think about things like quality of life.
Armed with information like this, we can do several things.
Then there was the Vietnam War.
The Department of Justice says that more than half of the rapes
Absurd. But I had to follow the Victorian norm.
and what happens right after you release.
We need variety. We need surprise.
So it s small trades by small people,
Being given a means of communication changed everything.
and that s a strong motivation.
coolest in the center city, warmer in the suburbs,
to present our art projects.
We are used to invitations, but this invitation really thrilled us.
The Swiss Embassy in Berlin is special.
It is the only old building in the government district
that was not destroyed during the Second World War,
and it sits right next to the Federal Chancellery.
No one is closer to Chancellor Merkel than the Swiss diplomats.
Why do people feel so miserable,
The government district in Berlin also contains the Reichstag --
Germany s parliament -- and the Brandenburg Gate,
and right next to the gate there are other embassies,
in particular the US and the British Embassy.
Although Germany is an advanced democracy,
citizens are limited in their constitutional rights
in its government district.
The right of assembly and the right to demonstrate are restricted there.
that happen in a very specific order,
The opportunities to exercise participation and to express oneself
Adam I wants to conquer the world.
and always subject to a specific regulation.
With an awareness of the dependencies of these regulations,
we can gain a new perspective.
The given terms and conditions shape our perception, our actions
and our lives.
And this is crucial in another context.
Over the last couple of years,
we learned that from the roofs of the US and the British Embassy,
the secret services have been listening to the entire district,
including the mobile phone of Angela Merkel.
The antennas of the British GCHQ are hidden in a white cylindrical radome,
while the listening post of the American NSA
is covered by radio transparent screens.
inadvertently kill some insects when you walk on grass.
With my colleague, Christoph Wachter,
it was everything I d ever imagined.
And we used this opportunity to exploit the specific situation.
If people are spying on us, it stands to reason
they create an extraordinary symphony of electrical activity,
(Laughter)
On the roof of the Swiss Embassy, we installed a series of antennas.
we decided, let s protect our neighborhood,
Well, the wintering ground is also critical
They were makeshift can antennas,
not camouflaged but totally obvious and visible.
I am forced to ask myself a question.
and so we built another large antenna on their rooftop,
exactly between the listening posts of the NSA and the GCHQ.
(Laughter)
and today we released a lawsuit
with a camera registering each and every move we made,
and on the roof of the US Embassy, security officers patrolled.
But we ve centralized these bureaucracies.
there are no specific laws relating to digital communication.
Our installation was therefore perfectly legal,
and the Swiss Ambassador informed Chancellor Merkel about it.
for three hours in order to hit a target,
(Laughter)
The antennas created an open and free Wi-Fi communication network
in which anyone who wanted to would be able to participate
using any Wi-Fi-enabled device without any hindrance,
and be able to send messages
So we figured, if there are places along our Fraser River
I held my head as still as I could
And people did communicate.
Over 15,000 messages were sent.
Here are some examples.
 Hello world, hello Berlin, hello NSA, hello GCHQ. 
 NSA Agents, Do the Right Thing! Blow the whistle! 
 This is the NSA. In God we trust. All others we track!!!!! 
(Laughter)
 #@nonymous is watching #NSA #GCHQ - we are part of your organizations.
# expect us. We will #shutdown 
 This is the NSA s Achilles heel. Open Networks. 
 Agents, what twisted story of yourself will you tell your grandchildren? 
because this is so cheap and also so strong,
whether you know it or not.
 Make Love, Not cyberwar. 
That small detail changed the way we worked.
because I don t just get hate mail.
and to our surprise, they did.
Files appeared on the network, including classified documents
of the Norwegian Arctic cod.
which highlights that the free exchange and discussion of vital information
being erroneously reported as spam and abuse,
We also organized guided tours to experience and sound out
the power constellations on-site.
that I think is an information enlightenment,
the specific equipment and a specific skill set.
If we become aware of the constellation,
are of that form:
it not only broadens our horizon,
it allows us to look behind the regulations that limit our worldview,
While we humans, we are happy in our comfort zone,
Let s look at an actual example.
on the outskirts of Paris
is hidden and faded from view.
It s a vicious circle.
We put on creams that blocked the enzyme that made it,
What is new is how these realities are hidden
Thank you.
in an age of global and overwhelming communication and exchange.
Such makeshift settlements are considered illegal,
consciously seem to us and how they really are.
of making their voices heard.
On the contrary, every time they appear, every time they risk becoming visible,
merely gives grounds for further persecution,
expulsion and suppression.
What interested us was how we could come to know this hidden side.
We were searching for an interface and we found one.
It s not a digital interface, but a physical one: it s a hotel.
Together with Roma families, we created several Hotel Gelems in Europe,
for example, in Freiburg in Germany, in Montreuil near Paris,
and also in the Balkans.
Why would you do that?
at any point along the track.
But they aren t a commercial enterprise.
They are a symbol.
You can go online and ask for a personal invitation
to come and live for a few days in the Hotel Gelem, in their homes,
eating, working and living with the Roma families.
law enforcement strategy.
the visitors are.
Here, the Roma families are not a minority;
the visitors are.
 For Us is Born. 
even if they lit the bear on fire,
these disparate and seemingly insurmountable contradictions.
In the world of globalization,
the continents are drifting closer to each other.
Cultures, goods and people are in permanent exchange,
so I m showing this classified sequence
He needed them to feel protected.
We were recently in Australia.
For us, it was no problem to enter the country.
We have European passports, visas and air tickets.
But asylum seekers who arrive by boat in Australia
are deported or taken to prison.
The interception of the boats
and the disappearance of the people into the detention system
are veiled by the Australian authorities.
These procedures are declared to be secret military operations.
After dramatic escapes from crisis zones and war zones,
I m like,  Those years ago, You circumcised me.
sometimes for years.
During our stay, however,
we managed to reach out and work with asylum seekers who were imprisoned,
despite strict screening and isolation.
From these contexts was born an installation in the art space
of the Queensland University of Technology in Brisbane.
On the face of it, it was a very simple installation.
What kind of economic engine would keep churning
What do you seek to express there?
accompanied by the distance and the name of the immigration facility.
But the exhibition step came in the form of connectivity.
Above every floor marking, there was a headset.
Visitors were offered the opportunity to talk directly to a refugee
who was or had been imprisoned
in a specific detention facility
I enjoyed myself, but during that moment while I was here,
And we re just volunteers and it s only an experiment.
asylum seekers felt free to talk about themselves,
their story and their situation, without fear of consequences.
Visitors immersed themselves in long conversations
about families torn apart, about dramatic escapes from war zones,
about suicide attempts,
about the fate of children in detention.
Emotions ran deep. Many wept.
Several revisited the exhibition.
makes sure she has lots of sex with the smart guy,
Europe is now facing a stream of migrants.
The situation for the asylum seekers is made worse by contradictory policies
and the temptation of militarized responses.
We have also established communication systems
in remote refugee centers in Switzerland and Greece.
They are all about providing basic information -- medical costs,
legal information, guidance.
we place both hands on the steering wheel at the 12 o clock position.
Information on the Internet
that could ensure survival along dangerous routes
is being censored,
at the bottom of the brain.
and genomics is merely one example of this,
on the roof of the Swiss Embassy in Berlin
and the  Can You Hear Me?  project.
that we couldn t even have dreamt up.
We should start making our own connections,
fighting for this idea of an equal and globally interconnected world.
This is essential to overcome our speechlessness
It is only in truly exposing ourselves
to the transformative power of this experience
that we can overcome prejudice and exclusion.
(Laughter)
(Applause)
Bruno Giussani: Thank you, Mathias.
The other half of your artistic duo is also here.
and say,  I am an actor,
(Applause)
First, tell me just a detail:
the name of the hotel is not a random name.
Gelem means something specific in the Roma language.
Mathias Jud: Yes,  Gelem, Gelem  is the title of the Romani hymn,
the official, and it means  I went a long way. 
BG: That s just to add the detail to your talk.
But you two traveled to the island of Lesbos
very recently, you re just back a couple of days ago,
in Greece, where thousands of refugees are arriving
and have been arriving over the last few months.
What did you see there and what did you do there?
Christoph Wachter: Well, Lesbos is one of the Greek islands close to Turkey,
and during our stay,
many asylum seekers arrived by boat on overcrowded dinghies,
and after landing, they were left completely on their own.
to hold like it is now.
For example, they are not allowed to buy a bus ticket
or to rent a hotel room,
so many families literally sleep in the streets.
And we installed networks there to allow basic communication,
and put on a breathing machine.
it s not only that we have to speak about the refugees,
I think we need to start talking to them.
to sue for civil damages,
about their lives and their struggle to survive.
BG: And allow them to talk as well.
Christoph, thank you for coming to TED.
Mathias, thank you for coming to TED and sharing your story.
(Applause)
Interpreter: Piano,  p,  is my favorite musical symbol.
It means to play softly.
you need to play softer.
Does anybody remember these?
Four p s -- extremely soft.
This is my drawing of a p-tree,
which demonstrates
no matter how many thousands upon thousands of p s there may be,
you ll never reach complete silence.
That s my current definition of silence:
Pip from  Great Expectations  was adopted;
I d like to share a little bit
something like this,
plus a bit of my own background.
You re going to send them to me.
it evolved into the language we know today as ASL.
everybody in prison, the governor and whatever,
I was born deaf,
and I was taught to believe that sound wasn t a part of my life.
And he said,  As an animator, you re not a director -- you re an actor. 
It had become a community gathering place overnight.
Sound was very much a part of my life,
really, on my mind every day.
he got the interest of an investigative journalist,
it s as if I was living in a foreign country,
and it kind of blew me away.
without ever questioning them.
So how is it that I understand sound?
Well, I watch how people behave and respond to sound.
He can t walk. Anybody know the story?
I learn and mirror that behavior.
remember something or someone,
There is a beauty in it that you don t need to translate.
At night, I would sit with my family
 Don t make too much noise when you re eating from the potato-chip bag! 
we want to make a documentary about the Bergen Railway,
 Don t burp,
and when you re eating,
data came to it in some form or shape.
We have knowledge.
Maybe I think about sound etiquette
more than the average hearing person does.
I m hyper-vigilant around sound.
And I m always waiting in eager nervous anticipation
and I ran off down the street marked  Geek 
Hence, this drawing.
The office building is basically obsolete for doing private work.
TBC, to be continued.
But it got me thinking, what would my caregivers do with me?
And you notice the staff --
and it would cost millions of dollars
That s because the lines already contain sound
through the subtle smudges and smears.
In Deaf culture, movement is equivalent to sound.
This is a sign for  staff  in ASL.
A typical staff contains five lines.
It s not just one dude making one poster,
doesn t feel natural.
That s why you ll notice in my drawings, I stick to four lines on paper.
In the year 2008, I had the opportunity to travel to Berlin, Germany,
and just commiserate on the fact that we all have hard.
Prior to this time, I had been working as a painter.
where we ve done our first field trials.
and as I went from one place to the next,
I noticed there was no visual art there.
so they have to resolve conflicts.
I looked up at the heavens through the oculus.
Now sound has come into my art territory.
Is it going to further distance me from art?
I realized that doesn t have to be the case at all.
I know it so well
that it doesn t have to be something just experienced through the ears.
It could be felt tactually,
But it was amazing to see that he was also executed on March 29, 1984.
or even as an idea.
So I decided to reclaim ownership of sound
and to put it into my art practice.
And everything that I had been taught regarding sound,
would have scored high on that test.
I started creating a new body of work.
And when I presented this to the art community,
I was blown away with the amount of support and attention I received.
I realized:
sound is like money,
power, control --
social currency.
In the back of my mind, I ve always felt that sound was your thing,
a hearing person s thing.
And sound is so powerful
Germany.
or it could empower me.
I heard a telephone tone, and it felt green
I just didn t know how they fit together.
And just because I don t use my literal voice to communicate,
in society s eyes it s as if I don t have a voice at all.
So I need to work with individuals who can support me as an equal
and even when we are confronted with something that is terribly difficult,
And that way, I m able to maintain relevancy in society today.
air that we sampled outside of the building.
And their voice becomes my voice and identity.
This is a beautiful prelude by Chopin.
And their voices hold value and currency.
Ironically, by borrowing out their voices,
I m able to maintain a temporary form of currency,
You could even still see the processed
If I didn t continue this practice,
I feel that I could just fade off into oblivion
and not maintain any form of social currency.
I delved into the world of music.
Do these guys have brains that are somehow structurally,
An old friend of mine -- actually very old, he s dead.
a musical note
cannot be fully captured and expressed on paper.
And the same holds true for a concept in ASL.
when sleep came on.
meaning that subtle changes
can affect the entire meaning
of both signs and sounds.
I d like to share with you a piano metaphor,
 Cause even when the situation s dire,
So, envision a piano.
ASL is broken down into many different grammatical parameters.
If you assign a different parameter to each finger as you play the piano --
such as facial expression, body movement,
speed, hand shape and so on,
as you play the piano --
English is a linear language,
as if one key is being pressed at a time.
but I continue to show up for the process
all 10 fingers need to come down simultaneously
which shows putting all this stuff together.
If just one of those keys were to change the chord,
it would create a completely different meaning.
The same applies to music in regards to pitch, tone and volume.
In ASL, by playing around with these different grammatical parameters,
For example, take the sign TO-LOOK-AT.
I m looking at you.
the better that it is for this fundraising.
(Laughter)
(Laughter)
Oh -- busted.
of the system, and what you can see here emerging
What are you looking at?
Aw, stop.
(Laughter)
I then started thinking,
 What if I was to look at ASL through a musical lens? 
If I was to create a sign and repeat it over and over,
it could become like a piece of visual music.
For example, this is the sign for  day, 
as the sun rises and sets.
This is  all day. 
But instead of seeing it in the binary fashion,
visually it looks like a piece of music.
All ... day.
I feel the same holds true for  all night. 
 All night. 
And this led me to thinking about three different kinds of nights:
 last night, 
 overnight, 
(Sings)  all night long. 
(Applause)
I feel like the third one has a lot more musicality than the other two.
(Laughter)
This represents how time is expressed in ASL
that people didn t need to look for,
For example,
1H is one hand, 2H is two hand,
present tense happens closest and in front of the body,
So, the first example is  a long time ago. 
Then  past, 
 used to 
and one of them being,
with the very romantic and dramatic notion to it,
The Amazon s a big forest,
How are Jobana, Sintia and Bertha really all that different
 Common time 
is a musical term
with a specific time signature of four beats per measure.
Yet when I see the word  common time, 
So notice RH: right hand, LH: left hand.
We have the staff across the head and the chest.
[Head: RH, Flash claw]
[Common time]
[Chest: LH, Flash claw]
I m now going to demonstrate a hand shape called the  flash claw. 
is retaining equity in these investments.
Everybody, hands up.
Now we re going to do it in both the head and the chest,
kind of like  common time  or at the same time.
Yes, got it.
That means  to fall in love  in International [Sign].
(Laughter)
International [Sign], as a note,
is a visual tool to help communicate
across cultures and sign languages around the world.
The second one I d like to demonstrate is this --
please follow along with me again.
to all the kinds of influences that are being talked about
This is  colonization  in ASL.
(Laughter)
and she said that she was so happy to report
Instead they process images, traffic data,
And again.
This is  enlightenment  in ASL.
So let s do all three together.
 Fall in love, 
These became the two bookends of his life,
and  enlightenment. 
Good job, everyone.
(Laughter)
Notice how all three signs are very similar,
they all happen at the head and the chest,
but they convey quite different meanings.
So it s amazing to see how ASL is alive and thriving,
However, in this day and age,
we live in a very audio-centric world.
And just because ASL has no sound to it,
it automatically holds no social currency.
We need to start thinking harder about what defines social currency
and allow ASL to develop its own form of currency --
without sound.
And this could possibly be a step to lead to a more inclusive society.
And maybe people will understand
and learn your own impossible and push that.
nor do you have to be hearing to learn music.
The second largest group, with nearly 30 million,
that I d like you to have the same experience.
And I d like to invite you to open your ears,
to open your eyes,
take part in our culture
and experience our visual language.
And you never know,
you might just fall in love with us.
(Applause)
Thank you.
Denise Kahler-Braaten: Hey, that s me.
(Applause)
I m really honored to be here today.
Oh, I missed one: or E) none of the above?
and they re not very good at cleaning up after themselves.
So here are a couple of sample questions.
we could offer her no more help than Alois was able to 114 years ago.
and how we may treat age-related diseases in the future.
We ve discovered antibiotics and vaccines to protect us from infections,
Now, I want to ask a question.
conforms to our idea of ancient, primitive practices,
can reduce diarrhea by half,
But that takes forever, it s very expensive,
So with my students, ages six to 15,
So we ve transformed our tiny Hong Kong classroom into a workshop.
I never liked you. 
and these are proverbs, historical sayings,
And so we have agreed that instead of collecting plastic bits,
and the police made this theory as well.
But even sisters, wives, they re not ready to support in the research.
 Because he s in jail,  she bravely admitted.
 Well, can he just get out for a day?  one of the girls asked. (Laughter)
What was really cool about this project was that the students saw a local problem,
and let s talk to the team that formed the core of the group
[I can investigate my local problem]
So the first was Jonathan Jones from The Guardian.
You know better than anyone
than people expect them to have.
where my weaker points are.
and someone gave his wall to be painted.
 Let s put in those few seconds of film. 
So what was cool about this project
So in order to accomplish this,
my students used their empathy and their sense of being creative
We are just not doing enough.
and this generation of veterans has the opportunity
and that seems like such a foreign concept to kids,
his primary education certificate,
Camera s ready -- that s it.
so it s this white bounding box,
And I said,  I ve been in a teepee and in a yurt for the last five years.
I teach wonderfully intelligent students,
And it s not just in Africa.
(Laughter)
The small size has some disadvantages,
And so what we did with them
is that we d discuss the data we collected that day,
from Mary Queen of Scots
you can t just pick and choose your favorite explanation
just by selection and trial and error,
it was just because there was routine vandalism --
what opportunity they have identified.
(Laughter)
And so I wonder if we should just take a leap
It s organic and it s essential.
switching from wood to charcoal as a cooking fuel.
But then it gets better. Day 96, he goes home.
Student: Acceleration! Acceleration!
of when you sit with somebody
that you ll just put it off until tomorrow.
Or, can we help the mobility of the aging population
But it is an irreproducible model for the future.
Because it s published on demand
There s some amazing spiritual connect.
Thank you.
What has the War on Drugs done to the world?
about the power of relationships
The exercise has three parts
and as a field we ve made a tremendous amount of headway
what middle-aged adults worked hard to gain.
It was stage 3 lung cancer.
and landed with this crash on the floor.
There is one simple act of transgression
is influencing the combustion properties of propane,
and I ve got tell you, some people actually hesitate to use it.
They think nothing of calling social services
and with luck and actually a lot of pushing,
I went to Democratic clubs and Republican clubs.
The sense of co-ownership, the free publicity,
None of the interventions are dealing with the underlying issues.
and as driven to make a difference.
You get about 80 percent of the way there, for one percent of the cost.
I want to know what s going on and what we can do differently.
instead of trying to be exactly together.
The other condition is in societies
you lose 10 percent of the audience.
is currently in a couple galleries in New York,
of hitting me out of the way.
when you think about how government
The first week I spent in this neighborhood,
using complex computer modeling,
and they re doing another social emotional response
What if there are a lot of different subjects that you re curious about,
And if you tripped, turn that into something to learn.
risen up to fight against legislative incursion,
This two-and-a-half-inch bat
higher levels of anxiety, depression, alcoholism,
The second case is how design can contribute
that every time Alice went head-to-head with a fellow scientist,
many people want to know something else about their doctors.
We can use biofuels, or solar power,
We go forward to 2007,
Mallory postulated that there is something in man
And on top of that, now we have
a little nervous,
And, you know, it s no accident
who could really blow it at that point.
and deforestation still on a very large scale,
And thank God Trinity Wall Street noticed,
my best friends in New York:
in helping me to get well,
where men and women were equally represented.
They led to longer lifespans, the eradication of mass disease,
if there are communication roadblocks.
(Laughter)
handling such heavy issues as,
whether this variation makes you more susceptible to diseases,
but actually what it s doing is it s searching the webpage for the text.
So, your thyroid works a lot like the thermostat in your house.
a clear line of accountability.
And I m not talking about the motherhood sense here.
the process would result in the manufacturing
acutely and forwardly psychotic,
But even as we were driving away, you could see by the look on his face
We went into the village. We would mobilize the community.
reinforce each other.
who d come in and take out the snipers.
In almost every simulation,
in which there aren t things like
So most Americans are not partisan,
Obi-Wan.
and how this can change our world.
you need to stock everything,
we ve got into the field and worked with the Nanopatch,
was being transformed into a complete animal farm,
anonymously managing access.
and their self-improvement.
all-you-can-eat surveillance programs,
 Chief die.
And I ve also told quite a few of my patients
We designed a service that encourages people to meet up,
Thank you. (Applause)
And some affairs are death knells
(Video) Jimmy Kimmel: Even the people on the show are falling asleep,
let s end anonymous companies.
now totally automated.
Do you think it s possible to control someone s attention?
in front of this building,
under the surface of the earth.
of what a 404 page actually is.
is most of the people who saw me on that show are now dead.
to your kind invitation.
and it is rich with surprising biological and mineralogical worlds.
Thanks to the efforts of intrepid voyagers in the last three centuries --
However, we know still very little about what is hidden inside the earth.
and increasing the CD4 cell counts.
the potential of cave exploration -- the geographical dimension --
Because we are creatures living on the surface,
There s something else at play here.
However, since systematic cave exploration started about one century ago,
Lots of important things. Obviously it s going to be around mobile.
And an abyss like Krubera Voronya, which is in the Caucasus region,
That means a journey of weeks for a cave explorer.
as possible.
Familiar silence, but this time I m ready,
Nothing worked. He died.
as symptoms of depression.
which is a big number.
the same way you and I would.
Raise your hand if you re in your 20s.
That means that for each meter of a cave that we already know,
What makes these two letters different
through looking at a map like this.
And this estimation is made without considering other types of caves,
and I sold drugs that were illegally smuggled
which are not karstic, but are formed by lava flows.
for Andrew to reach that same size audience
falling in love with life and body anew.
However, I will show to you now that we do not need to go to Mars
With this approach, you could take a site
in ways that accentuate the strength of the eyes
(Applause)
Imagine the trauma that these young girls
And in 2009, I had the opportunity to visit the tepui table mountains,
which are in the Orinoco and Amazon basins.
But, well, as I said, I mean, car drivers adapt, right?
They really inspired in me a sense of wilderness,
We have to figure out what it is to make these decisions,
and they got all their friends who had bands,
Scientists consider those mountains as islands in time,
Here s the first of them.
Look at China. They re falling fairly fast.
These mountains contain also a scientific paradox:
in the places where they sell their products.
and the rock made up by quartz is called quartzite,
you see glowing blue bars with pretty sharp edges
So we do not expect at all to find a cave there.
I felt that my two secret loves, poetry and theater,
but also to open the fractures and form stone cities, rock cities,
They ve stopped the fighting,
the Auyán-tepui, which is very famous because it hosts Angel Falls,
but then the front of it
in people s families, in people s homes and communities,
What you eat will have an effect
This area in medicine has done the most to try to figure out
so as to inform our present
The cave is huge.
and in only ten days of expedition,
do your designs convey?
from the perspective of the victim?
when you try to remove things from it,
not necessarily make people worried, although that was what often happened.
asking Chris Columbus in 1491,  Hey Chris,
The time needed for their formation
What you can find there is really evidence of a lost world.
When you enter a quartzite cave,
you have to completely forget what you know about caves --
carried overwhelming emotions that I d never had
Because what seems a simple stalactite here
This could be the pattern
and that presents a more difficult issue.
on a maiden aunt s wrist.
And we were a bit scared because it was all a discovery,
Anyway, actually, we know that this kind of formation,
(Laughter) (Applause)
opens up new universes, literally.
So whatever you find in the cave, even a small cricket,
to now control behavior,
everything clicked into place for me,
With a team of Italian, Venezuelan and Brazilian speleologists,
we will be back soon to Latin America,
that everyone asks—
Francesco, you said we don t need to go to Mars to find alien life,
makes sense to pull, because the future s
for not only European, but also NASA, Roskosmos, JAXA astronauts, in a cave.
where it can be turned into chemical energy.
that was in your slide show,
And this is only one of the conditions that s out there.
Audience: Yeah!
Is there any strip lighting in your happy place?
Polyester flooring?
And I say that sincerely,
Now, I wasn t always a middle class white man.
What would you guess?
And we re surrounded by natural light and organic elements.
So let s start there --
she tried to kill him with a butcher knife.
And you probably think you re addicted to your phone,
so I built this device using bicycle helmets,
somehow come together
And we invented the flying phone.
It can cause upset, it could cause cost.
like Uttar Pradesh, one of the largest states in India.
enormous talent now has been mobilized
The parents in crisis over screen time
Reality is richer than screens.
In this case, this is a Philly cheesesteak hoagie that it s grabbing out of thin air.
and then all the kids ran over there and rushed around her,
Our design was something in between
possibly the most boring name ever
This object captures your touch,
They meant to rule by means of repression.
and be loved.
The binoculars are actually a birthday present
The good news is that
This is probably the first planned mid-air collision, at one-twentieth normal speed.
CA: (Laughs) Okay, now, this is your gorgeous daughter, Jenesis.
It s pacific, coordinated civil action,
It s outrage
to develop and deliver teaching materials for teaching teachers how to teach
These principles should underpin how we design for the future,
a model version of that task.
The thing is that you need a very powerful light source to do this.
yet.
Eighty-five percent. That s a lot of silence.
which has destroyed many civilizations
maybe we could give a bit of thought to cork and light and hacky sacks.
boils down to this question:
is situated in the heart
It s the only one that can start a war or say  I love you. 
And so I m watching him, and he slows down,
that was aimed at discovering how bacteria fight viral infections.
So you go to the same website, you can download all the files
let s go to Lima in Peru,
that s able to seek out, cut and eventually degrade viral DNA
But it all starts with seeds in classrooms,
or the newspapers.
which means it s a fairly risky investment.
I don t know why they gave me so much.
and to prepare for the meeting, I read this article by Levin
You know, if you actually think about it, if somebody is totally blind --
way back,
where do you think we re going to go?
my cave exploration partner.
and back every year.
And we should begin by reimagining leather.
to their government clients.
even though that s partly a myth.
time for part two: a math test.
turned off her phone, fell asleep,
a conversation, a process,
in St. Louis and Salt Lake City combined
So I think I ve lost my way.
understand the story that the financials tell,
upon wave upon wave,
You have things like coral.
eventually evolved into this.
because they re going to have to realize
has total freedom to be creative, spontaneous.
that I was walking headfirst into a carefully laid
Then in 2005 I cofounded a nonprofit organization
(Audio: Laughing)
(Laughter) (Applause)
between the subjects that they could figure out
and we decided to establish Videre, our organization, together.
and I ve also performed in Arabic in the Middle East,
These films held what was too hurtful to say out loud,
and this was purely an informational feedback,
Thank you.
And then you see another spiderweb
or less susceptibility to cardiovascular disease
and we all forget about it.
the red dye with that found
And so, there are always — (Laughter) (Applause) —
that happened to Mayor Booker --
They could have done not so good work,
That is larger than, or almost similar to,
when scientists got together
Genome-engineered animals and plants are happening right now.
So after traveling and talking to people
if you reach into the medical system and somehow extract your medical record,
and Colombia played really well, and it was a unifying moment for Colombia.
(Applause ends)
We can do something here.
so they can touch and work on the other issues
who is sitting on top of a talking tan horse
What they decided to do was they would first try and slow down this epidemic
like George Church, for example, at Harvard,
So it wasn t a food area,
all of us that work in this field
And then I made great progression to the point
now and putting it into a global fund, and we ve got
Recast survivors as wonderful, lovable people
and the same is true of all physical objects.
who was willing to consider
And I would say that I certainly hope that other technologies
Father Daniel Berrigan once said that  writing about prisoners
They re unseen and unheard.
It s easy to simply ignore them
and it s even easier when the government goes to great lengths to keep them hidden.
As a journalist, I think these stories
of what people in power do when no one is watching,
are precisely the stories that we need to tell.
That s why I began investigating
is what would would happen differently in your life
The government calls these units Communications Management Units or CMUs.
Prisoners and guards call them  Little Guantanamo. 
They are islands unto themselves.
But unlike Gitmo they exist right here, at home,
floating within larger federal prisons.
There are 2 CMUs.
very devious. (Laughter) This fits with a lot of the research,
and the other is inside this prison, in Marion, Illinois.
Neither of them underwent the formal review process
that is required by law when they were opened.
CMU prisoners have all been convicted of crimes.
Some of their cases are questionable and some involve threats and violence.
I m not here to argue the guilt or innocence of any prisoner.
I want to make a hard-headed,
 When the prisons and gates slam shut,
And they then become the comets as we see them in the sky.
answering, writing, and they re still acquiring new skills.
to represent the patients.
letters
and visits from family.
CMUs aren t solitary confinement, but they radically restrict all of these
to levels that meet or exceed the most extreme prisons in the United States.
Their phone calls can be limited to 45 minutes a month,
compared to the 300 minutes other prisoners receive.
the stories that we tell
Their visits can be limited to four hours per month,
compared to the 35 hours that people like Olympic Park bomber Eric Rudolph
receive in the supermax.
On top of that, CMU visits are non-contact which means prisoners are not allowed
As one CMU prisoner said,
 We re not being tortured here, except psychologically. 
The government won t say who is imprisoned here.
that they re sending them to us.
and interviews with current and former prisoners,
some small windows into the CMUs have opened.
There s an estimated 60 to 70 prisoners here,
There is no life possible at the surface of Mars today,
They include people like Dr. Rafil Dhafir,
when she becomes 13 years old,
They ve included people like Yassin Aref.
Aref and his family fled to New York from Saddam Hussein s Iraq as refugees.
He was arrested in 2004 as part of an FBI sting.
Aref is an imam and he was asked to bear witness to a loan,
which is a tradition in Islamic culture.
She had been a bright, easygoing girl.
For that, he was convicted
of conspiracy to provide material support to a terrorist group.
It ll be a very boring movie --
and as a result, probably led to a number of extinctions
meaning they help balance out the racial numbers,
They are the first guardians of public health.
These balancers include animal rights and environmental activists
like Daniel McGowan.
McGowan was convicted of participating in two arsons
[  Jurassic Park  (1993) ] [Dinosaur roars]
During his sentencing, he was afraid that he would be sent
that our bodies weren t meant for the backside of a bullet,
and the Century of Progress Exposition,
saying that they weren t supported by any facts.
But that might be because the government hasn t fully explained
why some prisoners end up in a CMU,
and who is responsible for these decisions.
When McGowan was transferred, he was told
it s because he is a  domestic terrorist, 
a term the FBI uses repeatedly when talking about environmental activists.
it ll think to itself,  Hmm, I think an E is probably likely, 
think about combat not morally --
and he had no communications violations.
So, why was he moved?
Like other CMU prisoners,
This example from another prisoner shows how those requests are viewed.
This comes down to physics.
At one point, the prison warden himself recommended McGowan s transfer
to fit better into that society?
(Sitar)
Later I found out that McGowan was really sent to a CMU
not because of what he did,
but what he has said.
A memo from the Counterterrorism Unit cited McGowan s  anti-government beliefs. 
While imprisoned, he continued writing about environmental issues,
saying that activists must reflect on their mistakes
and listen to each other.
seen here as these green dots attached to this brain cell.
But that turned out to be nearly impossible.
I actually asked to visit McGowan in the CMU.
And I was approved.
That came as quite a shock.
Here, I am speaking directly to you,
they were hard to control, the light was dim,
Second, because it would make me the first and only journalist to visit a CMU.
So an important example of this
So how could I possibly be approved to visit?
A few days before I went out to the prison, I got an answer.
I was allowed to visit McGowan as a friend, not a journalist.
Journalists are not allowed here.
McGowan was told by CMU officials that if I asked any questions
or published any story,
and then I m going to go into new material about what you can do.
When I arrived for our visit, the guards reminded me
that they knew who I was and knew about my work.
And they said that if I attempted to interview McGowan,
the visit would be terminated.
The Bureau of Prisons describes CMUs as  self-contained housing units. 
But I think that s an Orwellian way of describing black holes.
When you visit a CMU,
The predispositions and impulses that had propelled me
But then the walk to the visitation room is silent.
When a CMU prisoner has a visit, the rest of the prison is on lockdown.
I was ushered into a small room,
so small my outstretched arms could touch each wall.
There was a grapefruit-sized orb in the ceiling
for the visit to be live-monitored by the Counterterrorism Unit
in West Virginia.
The unit insists that all the visits have to be in English for CMU prisoners,
which is an additional hardship for many of the Muslim families.
There is a thick sheet of foggy, bulletproof glass
and on the other side was Daniel McGowan.
The airplane patent holders were not left a choice
The main difference is, at work,
We did our best to find reasons to laugh.
To fight boredom and amuse himself while in the CMU,
that let her know how important it is
how many problem solvers —
(Laughter)
This mushroom exists in symbiosis with the roots.
(Laughter)
But I kind of the hope the FBI now thinks that Bella and Edward
are terrorist code names.
(Laughter)
Three months after our visit, McGowan was transferred out of the CMU
and then, without warning, he was sent back again.
It makes products more affordable.
and the Counterterrorism Unit said that McGowan had called his wife
and asked her to mail them.
I wasn t really mentally ill, it was some terrible mistake.
has all drifted to the back of the warehouse
When he was finally released at the end of his sentence,
But then we turned around,
Well, how you feel about Toyotas or Cottonelle
People suffer mentally and physically.
His attorneys quickly secured his release,
but the message was very clear:
despite only having a rather modest GDP.
Today, nine years after they were opened by the Bush administration,
the government is codifying how and why CMUs were created.
According to the Bureau of Prisons,
Across age, across income, across culture.
I think that is very nice way of saying these are political prisons
(Applause)
their religion or their political beliefs.
Now, if you think that characterization is too strong,
just look at some of the government s own documents.
When some of McGowan s mail was rejected by the CMU, the sender was told
it s because the letters were intended  for political prisoners. 
In fact, cars, who needs them?
was sent to a CMU, it was because of his anti-government and anti-corporate views.
Now, I know all of this may be hard to believe,
that it s happening right now, and in the United States.
But the unknown reality is that the US has a dark history
of disproportionately punishing people because of their political beliefs.
In the 1960s, before Marion was home to the CMU,
it was home to the notorious Control Unit.
Prisoners were locked down in solitary for 22 hours a day.
In the 1980s, another experiment called the Lexington High Security Unit
held women connected to the Weather Underground,
Black Liberation and Puerto Rican independent struggles.
It s a not-for-profit blog that I run.
Those prisons were eventually shut down, but only through the campaigning
of religious groups and human rights advocates, like Amnesty International.
in order to link 10 or more organ chips together.
are challenging CMUs in court
for depriving prisoners of their due process rights
and for retaliating against them
Many of these documents would have never come to light without this lawsuit.
The message of these groups and my message for you today
is that we must bear witness to what is being done to these prisoners.
Their treatment is a reflection of the values held beyond prison walls.
This story is not just about prisoners.
It is about us.
It is about our own commitment to human rights.
It is about whether we will choose to stop repeating the mistakes of our past.
If we don t listen to what Father Berrigan described as the stories of the dead,
they will soon become the stories of ourselves.
Thank you.
(Applause)
(Applause ends)
Tom Rielly: I have a couple questions.
When I was in high school, I learned about the Bill of Rights,
the Constitution, freedom of speech,
due process and about 25 other laws and rights
that seem to be violated by this.
How could this possibly be happening?
Will Potter: I think that s the number one question I get
throughout all of my work,
and the short answer is that people don t know.
I think the solution to any of these types of situations, any rights abuses,
but even if there s no rose there,
and drudgery and misery around the world.
and then a means and efficacy to actually make a change.
And unfortunately with these prisoners,
one, people don t know what s happening at all
and then they re already disenfranchised populations
who don t have access to attorneys, not native English speakers.
In some of these cases, they have great representation that I mentioned,
but there s just not a public awareness of what s happening.
TR: Isn t it guaranteed in prison that you have right to council
or access to council?
WP: There s a tendency in our culture
to see when people have been convicted of a crime,
no matter if that charge was bogus or legitimate,
that whatever happens to them after that is warranted.
And I think that s a really damaging and dangerous narrative that we have,
that allows these types of things to happen,
as the general public just kind of turns a blind eye to it.
TR: All those documents on screen were all real documents, word for word,
unchanged at all, right?
WP: Absolutely. I ve actually uploaded all of them to my website.
It s willpotter.com/CMU and it s a footnoted version of the talk,
so you can see the documents for yourself without the little snippets.
You can see the full version.
I relied overwhelmingly on primary source documents
or on primary interviews with former and current prisoners,
with people that are dealing with this situation every day.
And like I said, I ve been there myself, as well.
TR: You re doing courageous work.
WP: Thank you very much. Thank you all.
unless we use instruments to help us.
Seventy-thousand years ago, our ancestors were insignificant animals.
people often ask me about my influences or, as I like to call them,
my sonic lineages.
And I could easily tell you
That s how I went to school --
by the Ethiopian heritage of my ancestors,
because I should not have worn this dress.
and the notation usually is a capital sigma.
how do the sounds we hear every day influence the music that we make?
and as I walked, I looked to see what he was doing,
can be the most unexpected inspiration for songwriting,
and to look at this idea a little bit more closely,
I m going to talk today about three things:
nature, language and silence --
or rather, the impossibility of true silence.
And he did a painting of this experience,
already alive with musical expression,
with each of us serving as active participants,
And the car sped off.
I m going to start today with nature, but before we do that,
because they have very large shops
Here it is.
gives it to me like a banned item, something like that.
(Singing ends)
Gotcha!
and now, often the only woman in a room.
That is the sound of a bird
that the human ear mistakenly recognizes as its own.
but rather than folding things by hand,
 The Unknown Music of Birds, 
where he records many birds and slows down their pitches
to reveal what s underneath.
no matter whether they appear
obviously catches wind of this,
And this ideal product would also be able to go
so your brain can juxtapose them.
No. It was the whole, you know, motion.
(Singing ends)
It s incredible.
Perhaps the techniques of opera singing were inspired by birdsong.
And just as everybody got excited about it, bang!
In Ethiopia, birds are considered an integral part
of the origin of music itself.
1,500 years ago, a young man was born in the Empire of Aksum,
a major trading center of the ancient world.
We re taught from childhood,
if I make enough effort with huge passion,
and, in fact, there are studies that show
that we can really make sense of by reverse engineering.
Now, this tradition has an enormous amount of scholarship and learning,
and Yared had to study and study and study and study,
and one day he was studying under a tree,
when three birds came to him.
hitting a key, he hears a computer-generated whistle -- (Whistle) --
They taught him music -- scales, in fact.
And Yared, eventually recognized as Saint Yared,
used these scales to compose five volumes of chants and hymns
for worship and celebration.
And he used these scales to compose and to create
an indigenous musical notation system.
beautiful melancholy and sheer energy.
And look, we all do it.
and thriving and still evolving in Ethiopia today.
Now, I love this story because it s true at multiple levels.
Saint Yared was a real, historical figure,
and the natural world can be our musical teacher.
or was taught it, as I was.
the Pygmies of the Congo tune their instruments
to the pitches of the birds in the forest around them.
And that disparity struck me as this incredible
and in that road were more than 12,000 red chairs,
when the time finally comes
in exactly the same way as a symphony does.
And countless works of music were inspired by bird and forest song.
Yes, the natural world can be our cultural teacher.
So let s go now to the uniquely human world of language.
Every language communicates with pitch to varying degrees,
whether it s Mandarin Chinese,
where a shift in melodic inflection gives the same phonetic syllable
an entirely different meaning,
to a language like English,
where a raised pitch at the end of a sentence ...
had documented and scientifically validated
As an Ethiopian-American woman,
No! They re not for safety.
It was my first language, the language of my parents,
one of the main languages of Ethiopia.
I have to tell you, it s very boring,
its depth of poetics, its double entendres,
its wax and gold, its humor,
its proverbs that illuminate the wisdom and follies of life.
But there s also this melodicism, a musicality built right in.
into the mechanisms of this machinery.
in what I like to call emphatic language --
on the count of three, and go over to here.
or that springs from surprise.
We were not playing in L.A. on the regular  Jeopardy  set.
Now, if there are Ethiopians in the audience,
they re probably chuckling to themselves,
because the word means something like  No! 
bottom half carbon in the atmosphere
they re more satisfied and more loyal,
But when I was a kid, this was my very favorite word,
of all the people down there.
It has a melody.
You can almost see the shape as it springs from someone s mouth.
 Indey  -- it dips, and then raises again.
And as a musician and composer, when I hear that word,
something like this is floating through my mind.
(Music and singing  Indey )
(Music ends)
Or take, for example, the phrase for  It is right  or  It is correct  --
 Lickih nehu ... Lickih nehu. 
It s an affirmation, an agreement.
 Lickih nehu. 
in beekeeping, and you can see, at the top right,
something like this starts rolling through my mind.
(Music and singing  Lickih nehu )
(Music ends)
If you have a 90 percent target,
and the phrasing of those words and phrases
and I turned them into musical parts to use in these short compositions.
And I like to write bass lines,
comes from self-built wells throughout the area.
Now, this is based on the work of Jason Moran and others
who work intimately with music and language,
this is with the psychologists Yoel Inbar and Paul Bloom --
That the people who have the means to leave have already left?
when they were speaking to each other and to us.
and it works in software and it turns out that it works with kids.
that we are awash in musical expression
with every word, every sentence that we speak,
every word, every sentence that we receive.
Perhaps you can hear it in the words I m speaking even now.
and given the fathers the freedom to answer.
and the most seminal work of 20th century avant-garde composition:
as their communications methodology,
written for any instrument or combination of instruments.
The musician or musicians are invited to walk onto the stage
They don t need any traditional construction skills.
That is the last four years of lawsuits
the score, that is.
And this score has not a single note written
and there is not a single note played
for four minutes and 33 seconds.
And, at once enraging and enrapturing,
Cage shows us that even when there are no strings
being plucked by fingers or hands hammering piano keys,
still there is music, still there is music,
still there is music.
And what is this music?
It was that sneeze in the back.
(Laughter)
what we know as reinforced food.
their coughs, their sighs, their rustles, their whispers, their sneezes,
the room, the wood of the floors and the walls
expanding and contracting, creaking and groaning
with the heat and the cold,
in order to try and figure out what was going on.
Cage s point is that there is no such thing as true silence.
Even in the most silent environments, we still hear and feel the sound
of our own heartbeats.
The world is alive with musical expression.
We are already immersed.
Now, I had my own moment of, let s say, remixing John Cage
a couple of months ago
when I was standing in front of the stove cooking lentils.
And it was late one night and it was time to stir,
so I lifted the lid off the cooking pot,
and I placed it onto the kitchen counter next to me,
and it started to roll back and forth
making this sound.
(Sound of metal lid clanking against a counter)
(Clanking ends)
And it stopped me cold.
But there s a vaccine for that too.
I hightailed it to my backyard studio,
and I made this.
(Music, including the sound of the lid, and singing)
(Music ends)
Now, John Cage wasn t instructing musicians
to mine the soundscape for sonic textures to turn into music.
(Applause)
the environment is musically generative,
that it is generous, that it is fertile,
that we are already immersed.
Musician, music researcher, surgeon and human hearing expert Charles Limb
and he studies music and the brain.
And he has a theory
that it is possible -- it is possible --
that the human auditory system actually evolved to hear music,
because it is so much more complex than it needs to be for language alone.
And if that s true,
and this doesn t look like an org chart.
that we can find it anywhere,
that there is no such thing as a musical desert,
And so folks like Ami Klin have developed methods
and that is marvelous.
and forgive me here for capitulating to cliché
or even if melted and disappeared altogether.
Study music, trace your sonic lineages and enjoy that exploration.
But there is a kind of sonic lineage to which we all belong.
So the next time you are seeking percussion inspiration,
look no further than your tires, as they roll over the unusual grooves
of the freeway,
or the top-right burner of your stove
I m at the front of the line,
We cannot transform Africa by ourselves.
When seeking melodic inspiration,
look no further than dawn and dusk avian orchestras
or to the natural lilt of emphatic language.
We are the audience and we are the composers
and we take from these pieces
we are given.
We make, we make, we make, we make,
knowing that when it comes to nature or language or soundscape,
there is no end to the inspiration --
if we are listening.
Thank you.
And she ended up 5 11 .
everyone s been watching the same show,
And on January 2 this year,
right across the chest, that were also fuzzy.
They ve been swept away over the last two decades
there were sticking two white bones.
hanged in the Puja room as a god,
And usually, in Norway, dead people are identified quickly.
(Laughter)
and that s when the marathon takes place.
Raven shed his feathers, bear his fur,
and they started searching internationally through Interpol.
Nothing.
I desperately wanted to go home.
a person begins to take on what I call,  special meaning. 
But the police in the Netherlands managed to trace the wetsuit
In many ways, it was worse.
October 7, 2014,
But this was all they were able to figure out.
The customer paid cash.
so that even though this is really small,
or helping to look after a friend or loved one with Alzheimer s.
and we of course had the obvious question: who were these people?
but it took about two or three seconds to figure out
Calais is basically known for two things.
my first world championship,
and a lot of migrants and refugees are staying in this camp
in this suit,
And right there was a plausible theory about the identity of the two people,
will we regret the time we spent playing games?
goes missing off the coast of France, people would just know.
These are the sorts of unbelievable excuses
who found a talent.
you build it, you invest in high-quality preschool,
But if you just fled the war in Syria,
It was pretty obvious that it was really our parents giving us the presents.
And then take that material and imagine making it all open,
Qataris, you guys do the nose to nose.
about how these two young men fled the war in Syria,
we see that winning or losing an election, gaining or losing a romantic partner,
to swim across the English Channel in order to reach England.
with volunteers and helpers.
that makes it different from the technology of things.
a few of us have actually begun to call this information
It s my gospel, when I m telling people, grow your own food.
It makes the product strong, the tessellation.
But James got the part of Joseph, which we were thrilled about.
they want to be able to continue their lives.
engineers, graphic designers, farmers, soldiers.
you re going to take are going to work on your cancer?
But who all of these people are
because we usually do that in statistics.
So you have 60 million refugees globally.
and roughly 4,000 are staying in Calais.
to producing, or bringing back, an extinct species.
It s not going to be everything about their life,
And first, I want to tell you about one of them.
UAC foods has recognized that it won t sell if it s in stores.
I realized had a ripple effect
And after a while, we heard this story
(Laughter)
And it turned out the last time anybody had heard anything from Mouaz
but it didn t actually explain erection.
and we did DNA samples of him,
our country.
who now lives in Jordan.
It s the number of people on each income,
was actually Mouaz Al Balkhi.
And while we were doing all this investigation,
we got to know Mouaz s story.
He was born in the Syrian capital of Damascus in 1991.
and his father in the middle there is a chemical engineer
who spent 11 years in prison for belonging to the political opposition in Syria.
occasionally a little bit here and there.
So a couple of years into the Syrian war,
the family fled Damascus and went to the neighboring country, Jordan.
so he figured,  OK, the best thing I can do to help my family
would be to go somewhere where I can finish my studies
where his uncle lives.
We know he made at least 12 failed attempts to cross the English Channel
But at some point, he must have given up all hope.
he spent at a cheap hotel close to the train station in Dunkirk.
today and even more so in the future.
This is a more competent version of it.
which will exist in the year 2060 will be built.
is sales, marketing, distribution and profit.
But they do have a similar story.
of public beheadings and public executions,
So we got in touch with him.
Shadi, a couple of years older than Mouaz,
doesn t matter if I ve ever met him before --
Now, there are a few candidates
but their house got bombed early in the war.
So the family fled to an area of Damascus known as Camp Yarmouk.
on planet Earth.
They ve been bombed by the military, they ve been besieged,
and they ve been cut off from supplies for years.
The parents are still stuck inside.
but before Libya turned into full-blown civil war.
But I think blogs are basically just an evolution,
Shadi took up scuba diving, and he seemed to spend most of his time underwater.
He fell completely in love with the ocean,
Maybe some of you know that feeling.
Looking closer, we can see that this mushroom
he hoped to find work as a diver when he reached Italy.
because he had a hard time communicating with his family,
but we do know that he struggled.
he was living on the streets somewhere in France.
On October 7, he calls his cousin in Belgium,
I ve always been obsessed with these animals.
He said,  I m in Calais. I need you to come get my backpack and my laptop.
is the spread of the constitutional state
but Shadi s battery on the phone went flat,
and his phone was never switched on again.
What was left of Shadi was found nearly three months later,
between health and economics, or environment and economics.
In response, the American Heritage Dictionaries
How many people know about XML?
What we re talking about today is just as complicated.
 Harry Potter and the Philosopher s Stone. 
and what am I willing to do to achieve it?
The type of people who were drawn to writing an encyclopedia for fun
a better life would mean
being able to do more of what we think of as meaningful,
whether that be spending more time with your family and friends,
travel to an exotic place,
(Applause)
places in their lives
and from that estimate the canopy size,
It s a life in dignity.
A better life means not having your house bombed,
not fearing being kidnapped.
It means being able to send your children to school,
go to university,
or just find work to be able to provide for yourself and the ones you love.
And before you know it, you can be tangled up or spinning,
compared to nearly none,
And I have no trouble imagining
that after spending weeks or even months
but finally she started opening up to me,
with a stupid, racist name like  The Jungle, 
If I could ask Shadi and Mouaz
just 200 times bigger.
they would probably say,  This is worth the risk, 
because they could no longer see any other option.
and that they re not doing it
Bruno Giussani: Thank you, Anders.
This is Tomm Christiansen,
who took most of the pictures you have seen and they ve done reporting together.
Tomm, you two have been back to Calais recently.
This was the third trip.
It was after the publication of the article.
Tomm Christiansen: The first time we were in Calais,
it was about 1,500 refugees there.
They had a difficult time, but they were positive, they had hope.
The last time, the camp has grown, maybe four or five thousand people.
It seemed more permanent, NGOs have arrived,
a small school has opened.
TED dance, three versions of physical thinking. (Applause)
along with the despair and hopelessness among the refugees.
BG: Are you planning to go back? And continue the reporting?
BG: Anders, I m a former journalist,
and to me, it s amazing that in the current climate
Dagbladet has consented so many resources for this story,
which tells a lot about newspapers taking the responsibility,
but how did you sell it to your editors?
So how is all this governed?
to investigate complex frauds.
we basically got the message that we could do whatever we wanted,
just travel wherever you need to go, do whatever you need to do,
BG: That s an editor taking responsibility.
The story, by the way, has been translated and published
And the last story I really want to tell is this story,
say it is scientifically sound --
(Applause)
We all go to doctors.
And we do so with trust and blind faith
However, the reality is that that hasn t always been the case for everyone.
and there s a dairy cow.
when they go wrong,
collaboration with other people,
It s about saving lives. How cool is that?
OK, there s a lot of runny noses and stubbed toes,
At the jirga, the men sat together
We were never taught that there were any differences between men and women.
Do you know that it takes years for a drug to go from an idea
were living with HIV, healthy lives.
whereas today, it is a lot higher in the United States.
So why are we discovering unacceptable side effects
What s happening?
Well, it turns out that those cells used in that laboratory,
How is it that the male model became our framework for medical research?
it means we have a whole new way to attack,
Because this guy is the busiest man on the planet.
But just this past year,
during the crazy ride of  Eat, Pray, Love, 
where a local fossil hunter found several bones of Spinosaurus.
and running Washington gridlock.
Technology then meant we had to hire a viewing cinema,
that we were going to go out and just
when this drug was first released.
How many other things need to be analyzed by gender?
What else are we missing?
They also learn to follow other people s gaze,
So some much-needed guidelines or rules were set into place,
from entering into any medical research studies.
There was fear: what if something happened to the fetus during the study?
Who would be responsible?
human beings.
They don t have the constantly fluctuating levels of hormones
Now this is a video of Kamal.
What happens when time warps?
Not to mention, at this time, there was a general assumption
So that s why I chose to use paper.
medical research was performed on men,
What did this do to the notion of women s health?
this is Mena, this is how I make a joke at people.
I believe this has got to be, in part,
which cannot be predicted
According to one estimate, the Gates Foundation
So please know that you don t have to be dying anytime soon
blocking my view and ruining my experience
You know, we have this saying in medicine:
And we say that to remind ourselves
Now just knowing that word, the cloud,
And it s because of this that the medical specialty of pediatrics came to light.
And I know the same thing can be said about women.
The reason I m waving with my left hand
But they have their own anatomy and physiology
Let s take the cardiovascular system, for example.
Heart disease is the number one killer for both men and women,
That was the dogma.
So there is now an al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb,
Women have chest pain, too.
 can t seem to get enough air in, 
So, think about your own life,
and what we know as G.I. Jane.
He s a filmmaker and an activist.
and around 4 a.m. when they sat around a fire,
It just goes on and on.
And the test that we use to determine if someone is at risk for a heart attack,
It accepts that I m going to have to die
And then if we think about the medications --
We give aspirin to healthy men to help prevent them from having a heart attack,
What this is doing is merely telling us
Emergency medicine is a fast-paced business.
In how many life-saving areas of medicine,
The lunch ladies, the lunch cooks of America --
and saying it can do this, or it does do this, or it will do that,
Or even, why is it that some people get those runny noses
and you have the extra step of cooking the binder,
We were able to make that happen for them.
The Institute of Medicine has said every cell has a sex.
What does this mean?
Sex is DNA.
by 50 percent, five-zero percent.
But it s important to realize that from the moment of conception,
It used to be thought
decides after a few months of talking on the Internet
But we now know that that theory was wrong --
has its own drama in the U.S. healthcare system,
and could be what s responsible for the differences we see
Please go ahead.
and it s up to those scientists that continue to find that evidence,
Right now.
And to help do this, I m a co-founder of a national organization
are progressively getting more and more blue
And we re working to bring together the medical educators to the table.
That s a big job.
It s changing the way medical training has been done since its inception.
But I believe in them.
I know they re going to see the value of incorporating the gender lens
It s about training the future health care providers correctly.
And regionally,
the arguments and the instruments that each would need
Because this cannot just be left up to the health care leaders.
We all have a role in making a difference.
But I must warn you: this is not easy.
In fact, it s hard.
It s essentially changing the way we think about medicine
It s changing our relationship to the health care system.
But there s no going back.
We now know just enough
enormous transparency and privacy issues to solve,
(Applause)
This is not just about improving medical care for women.
This is about personalized, individualized health care for everyone.
This awareness has the power to transform medical care for men and women.
And from now on, I want you to ask your doctors
They may not know the answer --
But the conversation has begun, and together we can all learn.
Remember, for me and my colleagues in this field,
Thank you.
In my lab, we build autonomous aerial robots
So without GPS,
and she would wait,
these migrants had to pass a few tests.
Haiti is now 98 percent deforested.
that allow them to see, hear, feel
Now there s one problem with robots like this.
And these robots consume about 100 watts per pound.
And this makes for a very short mission life.
Gray whales off America migrate 16,000 kilometers
we re at a turning point in human history,
and they threatened us
We are blind to the sea
The home, once again, because of distributed computation --
which is they took the analogy of scuba diving.
because of cultural barriers.
but the smallest measure, the moment, has shrunk.
and we imagined this river to be a river in Japanese style
Just see the contrast.
I took breath
that these fish need to grow and reproduce successfully
This is an example from Karen Burg s lab, where they re
he pushed him down,
And smaller is better,
might spread from one part of the body to the next,
His right eye couldn t see.
We think of it as a compact urban cell.
And as soon as the inevitability bit becomes a little bit unclear --
Big support team. We had a film crew,
The two-gram carbon fiber cage around it prevents the propellers from entangling,
and I ll write another book after that
or the potential of my neck breaking.
but the one thing they have done is that they have
So, similarly, in our lab, we try to create artificial robot swarms.
And within each robot,
highlighting it compared to the dim environment.
and I exaggerate only slightly:
the size of New York City every two years.
The first idea is that robots need to be aware of their neighbors.
But because the robots interact with each other,
Well, in 1994, when Pete Best was interviewed
By 10,000 years ago, they had disappeared from New Guinea,
So the next experiment illustrates the second organizing principle.
And this principle has to do with the principle of anonymity.
Shhhhhhh.
She urged my parents to have me tested by experts
would also have such signs.
And the beauty of this is that you don t need to form briquettes --
Most of the land that we can cultivate has already been cultivated.
And the efficiency of most systems in the world is improving,
And that s mostly because of water shortage, crop diseases, climate change
By 2007, when a survey of appraisers was done,
So just like personalized medicine,
would be to spend even more hours per day eating,
Here you ll see robots traveling through an apple orchard,
then you find out what s your map,
then they need to stretch out their paths
The other wonderful thing about you is memory.
The first and possibly the most important thing we can do is very simple:
The second thing we can do
also happen to be hollowing out the middle class
and that by engaging with them,
It s like having an app without having a smartphone.
Do you think the world is going to be a better place next year?
Can we end hunger,
achieve gender equality,
Three. Five. Three. Five. Five. OK.
all in the next 15 years?
Well, according to the governments of the world, yes we can.
In the last few days, the leaders of the world,
meeting at the UN in New York,
agreed a new set of Global Goals
for the development of the world to 2030.
And here they are:
these goals are the product of a massive consultation exercise.
The Global Goals are who we, humanity, want to be.
Now that s the plan, but can we get there?
So I said, I m going to do something else.
Well, I m here today because we ve run the numbers,
They re powerful enough to cut growth in half.
I searched extensively for a solution that could help my family s problems,
at our disposal.
may seem a little fanciful.
Watch the news every day and the world seems to be going backwards, not forwards.
And let s be frank:
it s pretty easy to be skeptical about grand announcements
From their more fixed mindset perspective,
But please, I invite you to suspend your disbelief for just a moment.
and I have to get back to Boston because I can t let my team down.
the UN agreed another set of goals, the Millennium Development Goals.
And the flagship target there was to halve the proportion of people
living in poverty by 2015.
and I spent investigating this topic.
when 36 percent of the world s population lived in poverty,
to get to 18 percent poverty this year.
Did we hit this target?
the process by which nature pulls in material via a disk,
and it lets us capture them visually and non-invasively.
sparks riots in London,
Now, that s still not good enough,
and the world does still have plenty of problems.
But the pessimists and doomsayers who say that the world can t get better
are simply wrong.
(Laughter)
Well, a lot of it was because of economic growth.
Some of the biggest reductions in poverty were in countries such as China and India,
which have seen rapid economic growth in recent years.
It s a decimal machine. Everything s done in decimal.
Can economic growth get us to the Global Goals?
Well, to answer that question,
we need to benchmark where the world is today against the Global Goals
and figure out how far we have to travel.
for the space and the time to explore
because the Global Goals aren t just ambitious,
Humor is a type of entertainment.
My research shows that in some instances,
Here s another way to look at exactly the same problem.
end hunger --
others are a lot vaguer --
that to me were all the trappings of places heavily touristed
So to help us with this benchmarking,
I m going to use a tool called the Social Progress Index.
What this does is measures all the stuff the Global Goals are trying to achieve,
but sums it up into a single number that we can use as our benchmark
and track progress over time.
The Social Progress Index basically asks three fundamental questions
If it stops us from noticing the problems that are around us,
First of all, does everyone have the basic needs of survival:
food, water, shelter, safety?
One day, 16 years after I had this poster on my wall,
education, information, health and a sustainable environment?
And does everyone have the opportunity to improve their lives,
through rights, freedom of choice, freedom from discrimination,
And we had to deal with images that were so realistic
The Social Progress Index sums all this together using 52 indicators
to create an aggregate score on a scale of 0 to 100.
And what we find is that there s a wide diversity of performance
in the world today.
The highest performing country, Norway, scores 88.
The lowest performing country, Central African Republic, scores 31.
And we can add up all the countries together,
weighting for the different population sizes,
and that global score is 61.
that means that the average human being is living on a level of social progress
because she can actually manipulate her posture
And normally, we interpret these physical changes as anxiety
What do we have to get to to achieve the Global Goals?
Now, the Global Goals are certainly ambitious,
but they re not about turning the world into Norway in just 15 years.
So having looked at the numbers, my estimate is that a score of 75
how much people make somewhere else in a similar business
it would also count as hitting the Global Goals target.
He was a mullah.
And that just kept sticking in my brain.
Well, the Social Progress Index can help us calculate this,
and that cell phone has GPS, but even if it doesn t have GPS,
there are no economic indicators in there;
there s no GDP or economic growth in the Social Progress Index model.
And what that lets us do is understand the relationship
between economic growth and social progress.
so, for example, the prosthetist who fits the knee,
So here on the vertical axis, I ve put social progress,
the stuff the Global Goals are trying to achieve.
Higher is better.
As soon as it touches the water --
Further to the right means richer.
And in there, I m now going to put all the countries of the world,
and has been for 400 million years.
and on top of that I m going to put the regression line
that shows the average relationship.
In fact, the things that we are seeing in those parts of the world
social progress does tend to improve.
give you guys a building,
is all out of my own personal catalogue,
and self-esteem and your flaws and how you accept those.
So here is the world in 2015.
We have a social progress score of 61
and a GDP per capita of $14,000.
And the place we re trying to get to, remember, is 75, that Global Goals target.
So here we are today, $14,000 per capita GDP.
How rich are we going to be in 2030?
That s what we need to know next.
Well, the best forecast we can find comes from the US Department of Agriculture,
The first step in solving any problem
over the next 15 years,
We thought if we could tune its properties,
per capita GDP will be about $23,000.
So now the question is: if we get that much richer,
how much social progress are we going to get?
we just kept redefining hope.
so we were excited about the prospect of growth,
and they came back and said, well, look: if the world s average wealth goes
from $14,000 a year to $23,000 a year,
social progress is going to increase
for something of nutritional value.
(Laughter)
Just 62.4. Just a tiny increase.
Now this seems a bit strange.
Economic growth seems to have really helped
And one of the leaders shared with me the fact that
how did he do that?
I came back home, a little after midnight,
So what s going on?
Well, I think there are two things.
The first is that in a way, we re the victims of our own success.
certainly should have been invited.
and now we re moving on to harder problems.
And also, we know that economic growth comes with costs as well as benefits.
There are costs to the environment, costs from new health problems like obesity.
So that s the bad news.
We re not going to get to the Global Goals just by getting richer.
So are the pessimists right?
Well, maybe not.
Because the Social Progress Index also has some very good news.
but hardly anyone plays.
So this is the average relationship between GDP and social progress,
But this diet has also been given to human participants,
But as you saw already,
there is actually lots of noise around this trend line.
because they don t have small change.
is that GDP is not destiny.
We have countries that are underperforming
on social progress, relative to their wealth.
but lots of social problems.
China has boomed economically,
but hasn t made much headway on human rights or environmental issues.
India has a space program and millions of people without toilets.
and Chuck would coach Tim how to spot undercover cars,
on social progress relative to their GDP.
The testing that we do --
people s everyday decisions about their health
And Costa Rica s not alone.
From poor countries like Rwanda to richer countries like New Zealand,
we see that it s possible to get lots of social progress,
They said,  It s good enough for government work.
And that s really important, because it tells us two things.
First of all, it tells us that we already in the world have the solutions
to many of the problems that the Global Goals are trying to solve.
It also tells us that we re not slaves to GDP.
Our choices matter: if we prioritize the well-being of people,
then we can make a lot more progress than our GDP might expect.
How much? Enough to get us to the Global Goals?
Well, let s look at some numbers.
What we know already: the world today is scoring 61 on social progress,
and the place we want to get to is 75.
If we rely on economic growth alone,
we re going to get to 62.4.
So let s assume now that we can get the countries that are currently
underperforming on social progress -- the Russia, China, Indias --
just up to the average.
How much social progress does that get us?
Well, that takes us to 65.
It s a bit better, but still quite a long way to go.
So let s get a little bit more optimistic and say,
what if every country gets a little bit better
to biology and medicine.
Well then, we get to 67.
And now let s be even bolder still.
What if every country in the world chose to be like Costa Rica
in prioritizing human well-being,
using its wealth for the well-being of its citizens?
Well then, we get to nearly 73, very close to the Global Goals.
Can we achieve the Global Goals?
Certainly not with business as usual.
Even a flood tide of economic growth is not going to get us there,
if it just raises the mega-yachts and the super-wealthy
and leaves the rest behind.
become labeled as non-science
over half of us will also have a hearing problem.
around the world.
I believe the Global Goals are a historic opportunity,
because the world s leaders have promised to deliver them.
Let s not dismiss the goals or slide into pessimism;
let s hold them to that promise.
And we need to hold them to that promise by holding them accountable,
for the Higgs boson mass in the multiverse.
And I want to finish by showing you
a way to do that, called the People s Report Card.
The People s Report Card brings together all this data into a simple framework
that we ll all be familiar with from our school days,
to hold them to account.
It grades our performance on the Global Goals
it created some pretty bad problems for me:
where F is humanity at its worst, and A is humanity at its best.
Our world today is scoring a C-.
and the conclusion was unanimous:
Also, I come from Italy, and the design is important
for the world and for all the countries of the world,
so we can hold our leaders to account
to achieve this target and fulfill this promise.
Because getting to the Global Goals will only happen if we do things differently,
if our leaders do things differently,
This demographic dividend is incredible, but paradoxically,
So let s reject business as usual.
You need to feel like you re making a difference.
Let s choose the world that we want.
Thank you.
(Applause)
Bruno Giussani: Thank you, Michael.
Michael, just one question: the Millennium Development Goals
established 15 years ago,
they were kind of applying to every country
but it turned out to be really a scorecard for emerging countries.
Now the new Global Goals are explicitly universal.
They ask for every country to show action and to show progress.
How can I, as a private citizen, use the report card
to create pressure for action?
In the middle of this chaos, I m rolling around in a wheelchair,
it s no longer about poor countries and just poverty.
It s about every country.
And every country is going to have challenges in getting to the Global Goals.
Even, I m sorry to say, Bruno, Switzerland has got to work to do.
And so that s why we re going to produce these report cards in 2016
for every country in the world.
Then we can really see, how are we doing?
And it s not going to be rich countries scoring straight A s.
And that, then, I think, is to provide a point of focus
for people to start demanding action and start demanding progress.
BG: Thank you very much.
(Applause)
(Guitar music)
I was just thinking
that I have been missing you way too long
about the ones and zeros I have on the screen here.
merely thinking
I ve got loads of pictures,
How and why did life originate and populate our planet?
to blind people than the blindness itself.
I think about long distance rates instead of kissing you babe
that offers more hope than you can imagine.
on a constant basis, and the journalist is always playing catch up.
that this boat is sinking
I m tired of postcards,
especially the ones with cute dogs and cupids
I m tired of calling you and missing you
I just want us to love just instead
I think about long distance rates instead of kissing you babe
they demand that things be shared:
But if we turn on head tracking --
(Guitar music ends)
(Applause)
Thank you.
it was the first we wouldn t be spending together.
When you sing, you have to know what you re talking about intimately,
exactly how these dubious deals are done
And if your intentions are to impress people
of the puzzles to your expertise.
And this is a song that s about --
shipped in oversized freighters.
and in the course of researching their lives,
that have always been informational
(Piano music)
Home is the sound of birds early in the morning
The next moment, you see the money in my hands,
one in a hundred, something like that.
Home
No matter how far I m gone
These ambucycles are an ambulance on two wheels.
is that antibiotics support almost all of modern life.
Home is a photo I never threw away
Home is the smile on my face when I die
Home is the taste of an apple pie
I met a woman, she always lived in the same place
And she said home is where you re born and raised
And he said home is where you want to be
I met a girl in some downtown bar
And she said I ll have whatever he s having
And I asked her how come we never met before?
And she said all my life I ve been trying
I m always gonna feel at home
No matter where I may roam
of appearing unoriginal.
I m always gonna feel this longing
as well as other forms of cancer -- anything.
(Piano music)
(Piano music ends)
Can we, as adults, grow new nerve cells?
with what we can do with new digital tools.
as this is a fairly new field of research.
For example, I was talking to one of my colleagues, Robert,
who is an oncologist,
and he was telling me,
 Sandrine, this is puzzling.
and we were all arrested.
is this cacophony of men coughing,
 Well, from my point of view that makes sense.
The drug you give to your patients that stops the cancer cells multiplying
also stops the newborn neurons being generated in their brain. 
And then Robert looked at me like I was crazy and said,
 But Sandrine, these are adult patients --
adults do not grow new nerve cells. 
And much to his surprise, I said,  Well actually, we do. 
And this is a phenomenon that we call neurogenesis.
they have influenced my journey
Now Robert is not a neuroscientist,
well, he was basically old enough to be my grandfather.
that the adult brain can generate new nerve cells.
At the same time, I was also studying
wanted to come to my lab
to understand the topic a little bit better.
And I took him for a tour
We do this by studying the sense of smell,
when it comes to neurogenesis --
and this is the hippocampus.
 Listen. Let me tell you a story.
is that this is important for learning, memory, mood and emotion.
However, what we have learned more recently
is that this is one of the unique structures of the adult brain
leave the country with his wife and two-year-old son.
And if we slice through the hippocampus
That disproves that popular notion
what you actually see here in blue
Subsequently, Algeria s fundamentalist armed groups
what I can control and what I have to let go
my colleague Jonas Frisén from the Karolinska Institutet,
the lighting here is kind of challenging,
in the hippocampus.
meet the challenge that Nelson Mandela made
compared to the billions of neurons we have.
But by the time we turn 50,
we will have all exchanged the neurons we were born with in that structure
we lost the same amount of forest in the tropics
So why are these new neurons important and what are their functions?
First, we know that they re important for learning and memory.
And in the lab we have shown
that if we block the ability of the adult brain
And they did. And when they did, it was like
looking back, is the sheep weren t stupid at all.
he had the quick feedback system of e-books.
so like, how you navigate your way in the city.
We are still learning a lot,
and neurons are not only important for memory capacity,
but also for the quality of the memory.
And they will have been helpful to add time to our memory
with our NGOs and with our government entities,
the way that we actually approach these diseases,
that you park at the station every day in the same area,
but in a slightly different position?
And more interesting to my colleague Robert
And I said,  Pity? 
So in an animal model of depression,
we have seen that we have a lower level of neurogenesis.
So it s a very fresh comet.
then we increase the production of these newborn neurons,
with whom I have a certain affection and a new affiliation --
establishing a clear link between neurogenesis and depression.
But moreover, if you just block neurogenesis,
then you block the efficacy of the antidepressant.
big material, that I can build with
since we can t buy them.
even after being cured of their cancer,
because the cancer drug had stopped newborn neurons from being generated.
And it will take time to generate new neurons
(Laughter)
So, collectively, now we think we have enough evidence
This is a slide that shows
if we want to improve memory formation or mood,
or even prevent the decline associated with aging,
or associated with stress.
So the next question is:
can we control neurogenesis?
Muito obrigado, thank you.
And we are now going to do a little quiz.
I m going to give you a set of behaviors and activities,
and you tell me if you think they will increase neurogenesis
The question is, why?
Are we ready?
OK, let s go.
and 12.6 percent, one in eight, had four or more ACEs.
Increasing?
Yes.
Learning will increase the production of these new neurons.
How about stress?
Yes, stress will decrease the production of new neurons in the hippocampus.
I d always told myself there s no reason to share that I was gay,
Indeed, it will decrease neurogenesis.
How about sex?
to see the things that make satellite imagery valuable.
(Laughter)
Yes, you are right, it will increase the production of new neurons.
However, it s all about balance here.
We don t want to fall in a situation --
(Laughter)
But that wasn t the biggest lesson I ever learned.
(Laughter)
How about getting older?
So the neurogenesis rate will decrease as we get older,
but it is still occurring.
And then finally, how about running?
I will let you judge that one by yourself.
Children are natural learners.
that was carried out by one of my mentors, Rusty Gage from the Salk Institute,
and, as he says, smell the proverbial roses.
moving from the South to the North
And here you see a section of the hippocampus of a mouse
different thicknesses of wooden sections.
And the little black dots you see are actually newborn neurons-to-be.
And now, you see a section of the hippocampus of a mouse
But you can see how your people are communicating with each other,
So you see the massive increase
of the black dots representing the new neurons-to-be.
I was also talking about building community,
Now the way TaskRabbit works is, people outsource
So here we have a sample of diet --
of nutrients that have been shown to have efficacy.
And I m just going to point a few out to you:
because his stories got better
There s a saying in Toraja
will increase neurogenesis.
Intake of flavonoids,
which are contained in dark chocolate or blueberries,
will increase neurogenesis.
and then we had to have Samantha
present in fatty fish, like salmon,
will increase the production of these new neurons.
what actually has been done with different prisoners,
will have a negative impact on neurogenesis.
And so my question is --
However, not everything is lost;
resveratrol, which is contained in red wine,
has been shown to promote the survival of these new neurons.
So next time you are at a dinner party,
you might want to reach for this possibly  neurogenesis-neutral  drink.
(Laughter)
And then finally, let me point out the last one --
How can we do it? It s a very simple method.
So Japanese groups are fascinated with food textures,
and they have shown that actually soft diet impairs neurogenesis,
as opposed to food that requires mastication -- chewing -- or crunchy food.
So all of this data,
where we need to look at the cellular level,
has been generated using animal models.
And the bubble is 153 ft.
in the same direction as it modulates neurogenesis,
whereas a high-fat diet will exacerbate symptoms of depression --
then what happens is, it becomes retail.
and also help to decrease the symptoms of depression.
So we think that the effect of diet
on mental health, on memory and mood,
(Music)
And it s not only what you eat,
and he said,  Sure, come and talk to me. 
and how much of it you eat.
On our side -- neuroscientists interested in neurogenesis --
we need to understand better the function of these new neurons,
and how we can control their survival and their production.
or in some cases hypnosis,
And on your side --
Thank you.
(Applause)
Now, I told you you changed my life --
I now eat a lot of blueberries.
for a BMW that one of our cybercriminals is selling,
from getting access to health care.
Do I have to run?
Or is it really just about aerobic exercise,
getting oxygen to the brain?
Could it be any kind of vigorous exercise?
ST: So for the moment,
we can t really say if it s just the running itself,
but we think that anything that indeed will increase the production --
or moving the blood flow to the brain,
about screen fonts.
MH: So I don t have to get a running wheel in my office?
ST: No, you don t!
MH: Oh, what a relief! That s wonderful.
Sandrine Thuret, thank you so much.
ST: Thank you, Margaret.
(Applause)
Well, I work at the SETI Institute.
was working at the Museum of Modern Art
One is made of thousands of steel parts,
They re little. They re five years old.
One is synthetic, the other organic.
One is imposed on the environment,
the other creates it.
he saw a figure struggling to be free.
The chisel was Michelangelo s only tool.
believe that the Higgs boson could not
A lot of us are not aware
framing the imagination of designers and architects
who have been trained to think about their objects as assemblies
What happened with questions that had to do with social justice?
You get a mouth.
and yet it s the same skin: no parts, no assemblies.
(Music)
the hearing in my left ear
the split personality of every designer and architect operating today
between the chisel and the gene,
between machine and organism, between assembly and growth,
We used both of these at the Oso mudslides up in Washington State,
No, we re having a little fun.
As part of my job, I spend a lot of time in the greenhouse growing plants,
is about uniting these two worldviews,
moving away from assembly
and closer into growth.
Why now?
Why was this not possible 10 or even five years ago?
So what the discovery of African writers did for me was this:
a rare time,
It will be more like a living organism
with counseling and referrals.
hierarchy is having a bit of a wobble,
Here you see actually how the damage appears in this material.
I m sure we could all be that productive
enabling us to design new biological functionality by editing DNA.
my team and I create.
Please meet the minds and hands
of my students.
that were funded by the National Institutes of Health.
But it s taken a long time to get there.
that comes from using technology. You don t know
with a vehicular base that will one day soon print entire buildings,
to nanoscale graphics made entirely of genetically engineered microorganisms
that glow in the dark.
Here we ve reimagined the mashrabiya,
So when you start to look at cyber from this perspective,
and created a screen where every aperture is uniquely sized
to shape the form of light and heat moving through it.
we explore the possibility of creating a cape and skirt --
this was for a Paris fashion show with Iris van Herpen --
like a second skin that are made of a single part,
stiff at the contours, flexible around the waist.
we 3D-printed this cape and skirt with no seams between the cells,
They re going to have to care in the social program,
in 20-micron resolution.
This is the resolution of a human hair.
And you?
to such high-resolution analytic and synthetic tools,
that come from the interactions
but also the physiological makeup of our tissues.
a chair that would be at once structural, comfortable
and would also absorb sound.
A more effective way to think about my relations
and by designing this irregular surface pattern,
we didn t really have a name for that either.
varying in rigidity, opacity and color,
Its surface, as in nature, varies its functionality
not by adding another material or another assembly,
but by continuously and delicately varying material property.
Although this was the low-cost option,
This is a slide to remind me that I should stop talking
and one of them stuck with me and came to define much of what I care about.
As she recounts:
 On the third day of Creation, God commands the Earth
to grow a fruit-bearing fruit tree. 
For this first fruit tree, there was to be no differentiation
nation, class, family.
The whole tree was a fruit.
what I ve seen to them.
 What would design be like if objects were made of a single part?
Would we return to a better state of creation? 
and some 100 million tons of it are produced every year
by organisms such as shrimps, crabs, scorpions and butterflies.
we could generate structures that are multifunctional
out of a single part.
So that s what we did.
(Laughter)
with their Adinkra symbol Sankofa,
You gotta love the Aussies, right?
not just in the global mean,
we were able to achieve a wide array of properties --
So we looked for a universal translator; I thought there would be one out there.
to light, soft and transparent.
we built a robotically controlled extrusion system with multiple nozzles.
So Nike is literally acting as a well-being partner,
and create these 12-foot-long structures made of a single material,
100 percent recyclable.
They maintain the health of our ecosystems,
and that s flexibility.
allows women to express emotions that would otherwise be considered unladylike.
as we learned yesterday.
and it s an issue, not an identity,
we embedded bacteria that were genetically engineered
to rapidly capture carbon from the atmosphere
and convert it into sugar.
we were able to generate structures that would seamlessly transition
and if scaled even larger, to windows.
He plays the computer. He wins.
Now I want you to keep looking at it.
we were able to transform a structure made of shrimp shells
into an architecture that behaves like a tree.
 take all the money we used to spend on cutting addicts off,
for objects designed to biodegrade,
put them in the sea, and they will nourish marine life;
and it made me realize why selling insurance
as well as its modern sense, courage.
We looked for the possibility of creating life-sustaining clothing
for interplanetary voyages.
To do that, we needed to contain bacteria and be able to control their flow.
And what month?
new lifeforms that were computationally grown,
additively manufactured
and biologically augmented.
[Butterfly]
only instead of transmuting precious metals,
you re synthesizing new biological functionality inside very small channels.
It s called microfluidics.
where you don t just sit when you re sick,
The first is cyanobacteria.
It lives in our oceans and in freshwater ponds.
And the second, E. coli, the bacterium that inhabits the human gut.
and train for the day that they can go home
Now, these two microorganisms never interact in nature.
In fact, they never met each other.
They ve been here, engineered for the first time,
to have a relationship inside a piece of clothing.
Abed then rose and turned on the TV
but evolution by design.
we ve created a single channel that resembles the digestive tract,
varying material properties according to the desired functionality.
spans 60 meters.
This is half the length of a football field,
and 10 times as long as our small intestines.
our first photosynthetic wearable,
liquid channels glowing with life inside a wearable clothing.
and eternity in an hour. 
ES: We also heard in Congressional testimony last year,
What if we could create structures that would augment living matter?
that would scan our skins, repair damaged tissue
and sustain our bodies?
This entire collection, Wanderers, that was named after planets,
They ran away home. Nobody stayed there.
but it provided an opportunity to speculate about the future
to combine scientific insight with lots of mystery
and to move away from the age of the machine
to a new age of symbiosis between our bodies,
the microorganisms that we inhabit,
our products and even our buildings.
I call this material ecology.
To do this, we always need to return back to nature.
It grows. It adds with sophistication.
is a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis
creates a highly sophisticated architecture,
a home inside which to metamorphisize.
No additive manufacturing today gets even close to this level of sophistication.
It does so by combining not two materials,
but two proteins in different concentrations.
holding those fibers together.
So these are groupings of the names themselves
it creates a tensile structure --
and it then starts spinning a compressive cocoon.
Tension and compression, the two forces of life,
manifested in a single material.
we glued a tiny earth magnet
to the head of a silkworm, to the spinneret.
We placed it inside a box with magnetic sensors,
and that allowed us to create this 3-dimensional point cloud
we are rewarded for just being.
Thank you.
not inside a box,
and you ask one monkey to control x and y,
and it would still healthily metamorphisize.
I certainly do,
and we discovered that the shape, the composition,
Silkworms are often boiled to death inside their cocoons,
their silk unraveled and used in the textile industry.
We realized that designing these templates allowed us to give shape to raw silk
without boiling a single cocoon.
(Applause)
They would healthily metamorphisize,
and we would be able to create these things.
So we scaled this process up to architectural scale.
and we placed it on our site.
I d want to ask him what the hell he thought he was doing. 
so we used a sun path diagram to reveal the distribution
of light and heat on our structure.
deescalate it, show victims a safe way out.
distributing those silkworms on the structure.
the most beautiful thing I ve learned since I quit my job
We ordered 6,500 silkworms from an online silk farm.
We placed them carefully at the bottom rim of the scaffold,
and as they spin they pupate, they mate, they lay eggs,
and life begins all over again -- just like us but much, much shorter.
and he was right.
As they spin biological silk over robotically spun silk,
they give this entire pavilion its integrity.
And over two to three weeks,
but everything would align.
In a curious symmetry, this is also the length of the Silk Road.
This could be used for 250 additional pavilions for the future.
One spins silk out of a robotic arm,
the other fills in the gaps.
and the buildings around us,
So that s the update about this game, cat-and-mouse.
then designers must unite these two worldviews.
Which brings us back, of course, to the beginning.
that takes us from a nature-inspired design
and that demands of us for the first time
What s so exciting about the next decade of data
(Applause)
Thank you very much. Thank you.
Now, throughout much of the recent history of medicine,
but Rajiv is sent home.
Many of you might not know this, but we happen to be celebrating
is that that introduction was nothing short of transformative.
or artificially synthesized in the laboratory,
lock into its target --
a microbe or some part of a microbe --
And you would end up taking a previously fatal, lethal disease --
a pneumonia, syphilis, tuberculosis --
In the beginning, the system is disorganized.
Will it remain the same and be two billion by the end of the century?
so potent the metaphor of lock and key
It was a transformation like no other.
creates a sort of a wall between authors of books
in chronic diseases like diabetes and hypertension and heart disease.
the idea that Israel s security was best achieved
every chemical reaction that your body is capable of,
And now you ask the question,
with community actions around food.
blindfolded, wearing baseball mitts.
and it will probably live up to its name.
with interacting nodes and interacting pieces,
and there in the bottom was a jar and it contained tissues of these frogs.
in a radically different way,
that can find the weaker elements in our world
building upwards rather than downwards,
in a somewhat different way.
In other words, 10 times more people are dying outside of war than inside war.
we ve tried rather desperately to apply this lock and key model to cancer.
with a bunch of videos from past talks,
using a variety of chemotherapies or targeted therapies,
and as most of us know, that s worked.
It s worked for some forms of breast cancer,
And this was even more important.
And it s only in the last 10 years or so
remembering that in fact the cancer cell doesn t grow in a vacuum.
And could you use the organismal capacity,
this is me being a parent.
You know, we don t think of cancer as altering the environment.
And so this is just indicating the tremendous thirst
we re continuing to mutate.
and you add to that,
rolled up in a little white sheet of paper,
which was the sort of last bit of civilization.
and you have a pro-carcinogenic environment.
And what I mean specifically, rather than just some phrase,
We re trying to change the metabolic milieu for other forms of cancer.
back out in the form of tremendous jets,
over and over again,
is to change the physiology of the organ, the brain,
rewire it, remodel it,
and that, of course, we know study upon study has shown
and study upon study has shown that talk therapy
Now the first part of this that we need to think about
Again, moving upwards along this hierarchical chain of organization.
[  Fraud  Essays by David Rakoff ] David Rakoff was a wonderful writer
about their weight.
Rather than killing something,
in the case of the great chronic degenerative diseases --
And that s the key, perhaps,
to reframing our thinking about medicine.
Now, this idea of changing,
because I wanted to get access to Al Jazeera,
I went for a run, a Saturday morning run,
and we obviously should be very proud about that.
And I had an MRI the next week, and it looked like that.
he was the rule.
85 percent of all women by the age of 70
 Burn  is the idea of trying to create the physical instantiation
50 to 60 percent of the men in this audience
So this is a very common disease.
Well, the second perk of being a physician
coming both from Africa and from Asia, and we put them separately,
we brought this process into the laboratory,
the cello or the hypercello.
They were used to seeing long, drawn-out, torturous executions on the scaffold,
And so what we need to do instead
is that they re habitually used to looking at the world upside down.
(Laughter)
And so Dan suggested to me,  You know, maybe it isn t a mechanical problem.
Maybe it isn t a chemical problem. Maybe it s a stem cell problem. 
sees illusions, does the most complicated things
bone, cartilage and the fibrous elements of skeleton,
just like there s a stem cell in blood,
just like there s a stem cell in the nervous system.
But my favorite effect on the body is actually on the heart.
is what s causing osteochondral arthritis, a very common ailment.
So really the question was, were we looking for a pill
when we should have really been looking for a cell.
Tie game with five seconds left.
However, I longed to share my life with someone.
are cells that have arisen from one single skeletal stem cell --
So this is a project that I just find extremely exciting
Number one is that they live where they re expected to live.
They live just underneath the surface of the bone,
underneath cartilage.
You know, in biology, it s location, location, location.
And they move into the appropriate areas and form bone and cartilage.
(Laughter)
in Telford and Shropshire in March this year.
you can culture them in petri dishes in the laboratory,
and they are dying to form cartilage.
No problem. Just like that.
called  Not ready to die in your war. 
They form their own furls of cartilage around themselves.
the most efficient repairers of fractures that we ve ever encountered.
So, it lets you take this ecosystem
So much so that if you label them with a fluorescent dye
you can see them like some kind of peculiar cellular glue
coming into the area of a fracture,
fixing it locally and then stopping their work.
Now, the fourth one is the most ominous,
and that is that their numbers decline precipitously,
is that we found ourselves in a perceptual shift.
It s a special feeling.
And in some ways
Some guy s got that on a computer -- there s this like, oh my goodness.
with balancing work and family,
because we were now thinking about bone stem cells,
So here it is.
Can you build this as an organ outside the body?
Can you implant cartilage into areas of trauma?
overcome their own heartbreak,
from students in our Princeton Sociology 101 course,
You know, we know that exercise remodels bone,
so that you can recreate or regenerate degenerating cartilage?
That home was full of young boys who were on remand
We think this can all be standardized,
And it raises a series of, I think, some of the most interesting questions
We have to think again about light as a default solution.
We heard about the problems of unleashing growth.
Could we implant suicide genes into these cells
is they really, truly changed
What if the organ needed to have memory?
In cases of diseases of the nervous system some of those organs had memory.
Could we store these organs?
Would each organ have to be developed for an individual human being
So this is an image of the actual algorithm itself
What would happen if each one of us decided
shamans have been using environments as medicines.
Could we imagine that for our future?
So let me end with some thoughts about model building.
And it turns out once again
he or she is trying to show you a world in miniature.
But when a scientist is building a model,
he or she is trying to show you the world in metaphor.
The former is a scale shift. The latter is a perceptual shift.
in our way of thinking about medicine that it really colored, distorted,
very successfully, the way we ve thought about medicine for the last hundred years.
called the Pitt Rivers Museum in Oxford,
That s what s at stake.
that the reason we haven t had the transformative impact
is because we don t have powerful-enough drugs,
we add injustice to ineffectiveness.
If someone came to my door
that we don t have powerful-enough ways of thinking about medicines.
It s certainly true that
does not include publicly-funded statistics.
But perhaps what s really at stake are three more intangible M s:
Number one, God never does a miracle to show off.
Thank you.
at the innermost core of architecture
How does it link in?
But I also think of Peter Zumthor s spa in Vals,
in those earlier chapters,
that we have all this data and that medical treatments of the future
will be for you specifically, your genome, your current context.
Does that apply to this model you ve got here?
We ve thought about personalization of medicine
very much in terms of genomics.
OK, I d like to conclude with just the last few points.
again, to use that same word, in medicine today,
that we think the genome will drive the personalization of medicine.
But of course the genome is just the bottom
without this theater.
That chain of being, really the first organized unit of that, is the cell.
of people who had them as pets,
we have to think of personalizing cellular therapies,
and then personalizing organ or organismal therapies,
and ultimately personalizing immersion therapies for the environment.
So I think at every stage, you know --
Well, in this, there s personalization all the way.
CA: So when you say medicine could be a cell
and not a pill,
you re talking about potentially your own cells.
SM: Absolutely. CA: So converted to stem cells,
perhaps tested against all kinds of drugs or something, and prepared.
In Bangladesh,
This is what s happening, and in fact, we re slowly moving,
not away from genomics, but incorporating genomics
into what we call multi-order, semi-autonomous, self-regulating systems,
like cells, like organs, like environments.
CA: Thank you so much.
SM: Pleasure. Thanks.
Actions, choices and behaviors
But it does have the potential to make us feel guilty
(Laughter)
My wife replied,  None of your business. 
or quite simply the lifestyles that we lead and enjoy.
But we can also turn that thought on its head,
and then we will have to adapt to less of the climate change impacts in future.
the kind of relationship between people
Over the last two decades,
Fortunately for me, my parents were not poetic.
Obviously, it s difficult to calculate.
as a percentage of America s GDP, and as you see,
You buy these boxes. You re not sure what s going to be inside of them.
Throughout the making of a movie at Pixar, the story evolves.
which is, what happens when galaxy clusters collide?
If we focus in on a shorter period of time from 1950,
and I think the experimentation actually became
I found it incredibly inspiring
And then in 2012, we had the Rio+20 event.
and in a sense what you can think of it
And enjoying the sun can be in many different ways, of course.
then we are much more on track
He went,  Nah. I don t think we want to be bringing a camel. 
so from a brand perspective,
And most of the time,
which is extremely unlikely,
So now put yourself in a city center.
that happen inside the firefly lantern.
These are the graduates of the first Ecole de Charbon,
on that day during that heat wave.
have failed to help address local conflicts
I m sure a lot of people will disagree with it,
and not just the temperature extremes,
So our roads and our rail networks
and it surprised me how easy it was
in Mexico.
To give you a perspective, if I had to translate
before I even had my first.
Maize and wheat yields
But one of the things that we found
This will be absolutely devastating for global food security.
Shakespeare being seven?
There are quite a lot of my colleagues and other scientists
But I would just like to draw on my own research
where this blue is embracing all the exhibitions and galleries
You can see how the fields in the background
from the red four-degree pathway
And that s because of cumulative emissions,
Well, it is the future.
And that tells us something about these trajectories.
the longer we continue on it,
which means that that trajectory, the red one there, becomes steeper.
So there goes my theory of necrophilia.
We also know that we have to decarbonize our energy system.
They have lower job turnover. They have lower levels of attrition.
And that s because with all the will in the world,
to decarbonize the supply side of our energy system
true breakthroughs -- occur.
And it s no accident that we have three children
Overdrawn. Underdrawn.
but also on energy conservation -- in other words, using less energy.
And if we do that, that also means
we will have less of a job to do if we ve actually managed
because we will then need less infrastructure on the supply side.
Another issue that we really need to grapple with
There are many parts of the world where the standard of living needs to rise.
There is an uncertainty margin, but we can see the difference here:
Because according to our research,
if you re in a country where per capita emissions are really high --
I mean the world where women spend two to three hours everyday
It s not that long ago
Invest sustainably.
how incredible this relationship was,
it means that if our economies grow,
then so do our emissions.
So I d just like to take a quote from a paper
where we said that to avoid the two-degree framing of dangerous climate change,
We now know the brain circuitry of imagination, of long-term planning.
And to think of what we have the ability to do with our blogs;
or are you going to do something with this?
This is not about just incremental change.
they started to feel OK.
OK. Seven countries.
or talking with our friends and family, or, quite simply, changing our lifestyles.
Because we really need to make significant change.
At the moment, we re choosing a four-degree scenario.
And I think that really, in a sense, what we re trying to do
Bruno Giussani: Alice, basically what you re saying,
and men certainly want this as well.
When men share housework and childcare,
I am wondering what s your take on the cut by 70 percent for 2070.
where the arguments against them are there for all to see
in terms of whether  impactful  is becoming common usage
It s like saying, I know that that blue icon on the desktop
where they will one day change the world.
Raise your hand if you ve ever been asked the question
 What do you want to be when you grow up? 
Now if you had to guess,
how old would you say you were when you were first asked this question?
You can just hold up fingers.
different beers would occupy different space.
has ever caused you any anxiety.
(Laughter)
this blog acquired first dozens of readers,
at which point I usually panic
See, the problem wasn t that I didn t have any interests --
it s that I had too many.
The youngest son took his ninth -- a ninth of 18 is two.
Maybe you ve heard of us.
And then something occurred to me:
like hope or empathy.
and at a certain point, I began to notice this pattern in myself
and it was easy to do because when those big flocks
had such a profound influence on inner-city gangs.
and I d get to be pretty good at whatever it was,
and then I would hit this point where I d start to get bored.
because I had already devoted so much time and energy
or maybe the psychiatry profession has a kind of strange desire
But eventually this sense of boredom,
this feeling of, like, yeah, I got this, this isn t challenging anymore --
should I give a speech at TEDWomen about women, and they said, oh no, no.
And I would have to let it go.
But then I would become interested in something else,
something totally unrelated, and I would dive into that,
and become all-consumed, and I d be like,  Yes! I found my thing, 
and then I would hit this point again where I d start to get bored.
And eventually, I would let it go.
But then I would discover something new and totally different,
and I would dive into that.
This pattern caused me a lot of anxiety,
for two reasons.
The first was that I wasn t sure
how I was going to turn any of this into a career.
That day, the last bullet I shot
Well, let s look around, you know, look in a random direction,
and just resign myself to being bored.
The other reason it caused me so much anxiety
was a little bit more personal.
I worried that there was something wrong with this,
and something wrong with me for being unable to stick with anything.
I worried that I was afraid of commitment,
riding buses and subways,
Every time I would think about coming out in the past,
If you can relate to my story and to these feelings,
Stanley Milgram from the  60s and  70s,
And Aaron looked at me
in another 30 years,
to doing many things.
I ll tell you where you learned it:
you learned it from the culture.
We are first asked the question  What do you want to be when you grow up? 
And the truth is that no one really cares what you say when you re that age.
(Laughter)
The other dog doesn t have the button.
posed to little kids to elicit cute replies,
like,  I want to be an astronaut,  or  I want to be a ballerina, 
or  I want to be a pirate. 
Insert Halloween costume here.
why do we sort of drop all that intelligence
But this question gets asked of us again and again as we get older
in various forms -- for instance, high school students might get asked
We took Camden off the top of the list
And at some point,
 What do you want to be when you grow up? 
to the thing that keeps us up at night.
Why?
from 12 different countries.
Okay, if there s anything stranger
you can t reply with 20 different things,
though well-meaning adults will likely chuckle and be like,
with no intermediaries.
This is Dr. Bob Childs --
(Laughter)
and he s a luthier and psychotherapist.
I m not here to argue against science and math.
teacher and creative director.
But most kids don t hear about people like this.
All they hear
is that they re going to have to choose.
is not trust but trustworthiness.
and have two shadows.
is highly romanticized in our culture.
It s this idea of destiny or the one true calling,
the idea that we each have one great thing
we are meant to do during our time on this earth,
the British adolescents all sorts of questions,
But what if you re someone who isn t wired this way?
and many different things you want to do?
Well, there is no room for someone like you in this framework.
And so you might feel alone.
You might feel like you don t have a purpose.
And you might feel like there s something wrong with you.
For soldiers, we have full-time, waiting to go.
What you are is a multipotentialite.
(Laughter)
It s not making more sensors.
A multipotentialite is someone with many interests and creative pursuits.
to serve the needy.
It might help if you break it up into three parts:
multi, potential, and ite.
You can also use one of the other terms that connote the same idea,
such as polymath, the Renaissance person.
Actually, during the Renaissance period,
it was considered the ideal to be well-versed in multiple disciplines.
Barbara Sher refers to us as  scanners. 
Use whichever term you like, or invent your own.
The guy in green is Palestinian.
we cannot agree on a single identity.
(Laughter)
It s easy to see your multipotentiality
as a limitation or an affliction that you need to overcome.
But what I ve learned through speaking with people
KB: Besides, who s next, no, OK.
is that there are some tremendous strengths to being this way.
Here are three
multipotentialite super powers.
One: idea synthesis.
That is, combining two or more fields
and creating something new at the intersection.
I put in a brain that s kind of the traditional,
in cartography, data visualization, travel, mathematics and design,
when they founded Meshu.
Sha and Rachel came up with this unique idea
not despite, but because of their eclectic mix of skills and experiences.
and they have constrained our capacity
That s where the new ideas come from.
And multipotentialites, with all of their backgrounds,
are able to access a lot of these points of intersection.
of the external world.
of them seeing an object
When multipotentialites become interested in something,
we go hard.
We observe everything we can get our hands on.
We re also used to being beginners,
because we ve been beginners so many times in the past,
and after that they only survived in Tasmania.
What s more, many skills are transferable across disciplines,
and we bring everything we ve learned to every new area we pursue,
so we re rarely starting from scratch.
But we don t have the words yet, so we add a third technology.
As a child concert pianist, she honed an incredible ability
to develop muscle memory.
Now, she s the fastest typist she knows.
from my hometown of Tel Aviv
is about doing something weird and filling the void with explanation and interpretation --
and eventually things got better.
when she was starting her practice,
and this skill now helps her write compelling pitches to editors.
It is rarely a waste of time to pursue something you re drawn to,
even if you end up quitting.
You might apply that knowledge in a different field entirely,
in a way that you couldn t have anticipated.
and start failing calculus all of the sudden,
is adaptability;
In fact, he s a teacher at the Kennedy School
in a given situation.
Abe Cajudo is sometimes a video director, sometimes a web designer,
One major consequence of this work
and sometimes, apparently, James Bond.
(Laughter)
He s valuable because he does good work.
He s even more valuable because he can take on various roles,
depending on his clients  needs.
Fast Company magazine identified adaptability
as the single most important skill to develop in order to thrive
in the 21st century.
We decided we can t put a  Do not enter  sign next to the vent.
The good life is a life where design is important
in order to meet the needs of the market that are really going to thrive.
Idea synthesis, rapid learning and adaptability:
The more people who know about this technology,
to rat people out, but some things just cross the line.
As a society, we have a vested interest in encouraging multipotentialites
and I often perform them. I want to show you a clip
We have a lot of complex, multidimensional problems in the world right now,
and we need creative, out-of-the-box thinkers to tackle them.
Now, let s say that you are, in your heart, a specialist.
You came out of the womb knowing you wanted to be a pediatric neurosurgeon.
Don t worry -- there s nothing wrong with you, either.
shouldn t be what s wrong with you
Since leaving office, I have had time to reflect.
and multipotentialite paired together.
because it has one of the largest ports in Mexico,
It s a beautiful partnership.
But we should all be designing lives and careers
that are aligned with how we re wired.
And sadly, multipotentialites are largely being encouraged
simply to be more like their specialist peers.
So with that said,
if there is one thing you take away from this talk,
I hope that it is this:
embrace your inner wiring, whatever that may be.
If you re a specialist at heart,
then by all means, specialize.
That is where you ll do your best work.
But to the multipotentialites in the room,
including those of you who may have just realized
in the last 12 minutes that you are one --
(Laughter)
to you I say:
embrace your many passions.
what kind of surveillance the government s
Explore your intersections.
Embracing our inner wiring leads to a happier, more authentic life.
And perhaps more importantly --
multipotentialites, the world needs us.
Thank you.
(Applause)
 thank you,  or  I love you. 
a body that doesn t respond to commands.
Wishing you could reach out,
someone took credit for  Twitter-bombing  my account.
on-site, watching these leaders in action.
I contracted a brain infection.
but due to his family
Eventually, I lost my ability to control my movements,
Those were the last words I ever spoke with my own voice.
as I am about baseball. 
One year turned to two,
And any nation that would become protectionist over the next few years
I had been moved out of my bedroom into another more practical one.
Gradually, my awareness started to return.
And one of the things in general that computers have provided to learning
I was aware of everything,
is that it now includes a kind of learning
And I realized that so many people around us
My personality was entombed within a seemingly silent body,
I ve been to a couple. They re quite fun.
No one would ever show me tenderness.
but it can be very confusing for parents,
Well, nothing pleasant.
In many countries, it is a different story.
And increasingly, everything that people buy,
I left the kitchen not really in shock about Santa,
It s a very dark place to find yourself
Whether I was laid on my side or strapped into my wheelchair.
I often spent my days positioned in front of the TV
watching Barney reruns.
and the reason being is that anything that is older than four billion years is gone.
and I absolutely wasn t,
it made it so much worse.
I was a silent, invisible observer of how people behaved
It feels as if technologists have diverted us
a defenseless object, seemingly devoid of feelings
that people used to play out their darkest desires.
abused me physically, verbally and sexually.
I took this video in Cape Town last year.
How could they do this to me?
Why don t we take the source
All I knew was that I would never be the same.
and it s not because they re less diligent.
Perhaps my parents could have found out and could have helped.
But the years of constant caretaking,
had taken a toll on my mother and father.
Following yet another heated argument between my parents,
emails, social networking --
and you feel like,  Wow! This is so impressive, 
There were many moments when I gave up,
You hit the solid rock.
The thing that caused massive policy changes to occur
So this story stayed with me.
transformed how I was feeling,
making me want to keep going.
And we re doing it without a sales-and-marketing team.
It s a completely different domain.
like a mother with her newborn.
to either close down to retreat from my reality
These are companies that operate in more than one country,
But I had been washed away like a sand castle
built too close to the waves,
and in my place was the person people expected me to be.
stare at awesome black people.
deserving of harsh words, dismissal and even abuse.
who had grown to become a man.
Good or bad, I was a blank canvas
like, how many houses are you going to paint?
a campaign around one product and show them
So that s the third one, anger.
that I couldn t wait to be able to share them.
Sometimes, I would say things to myself simply because I could.
In myself, I had a ready audience,
others would listen, too.
I realized that it was in fact only just the beginning
of creating a new voice for myself.
and managed to get my first job making photocopies.
As simple as this may sound, it was amazing.
My new world was really exciting
but often quite overwhelming and frightening.
It contributes immensely to our --
and as liberating as it often was,
for applications in bioterrorism
this animal, when it died of neglect --
I ll enjoy it on my own. Perhaps.
doesn t change the meaning or value
And you know what s exciting is that this innovation
He was my wingman on the descent.
so they can make a positive transition back into society.
I met Joan.
Well, I decided to do a little experiment with my 16-year old son.
Sixty-four percent of New Yorkers support these bike lanes.
The first time someone referred to me as a man,
it stopped me in my tracks.
Just as medicine serves to heal more
That all changed with Joan.
We have an amazing connection
and I learned how important it is to communicate openly and honestly.
But it s on you to control it, because it can go both ways.
I started to feel whole again, a man worthy of love.
by widening our circle of compassion. 
I spoke up a little more at work.
I used the power of words and will to challenge the preconceptions
of those around me and those I had of myself.
Communication is what makes us human,
enabling us to connect on the deepest level
but watch what happens when I pull it out.
and I m hoping that soon
our designers, our business people, our entrepreneurs to be facing.
All this is how the world knows who we are.
It could be that we all start
True communication increases understanding
And that prevented a very serious potential problem.
Once, I was perceived to be an inanimate object,
a mindless phantom of a boy in a wheelchair.
Today, I am so much more.
It is this participation in peacekeeping missions
it had access to so much personal information
a keen amateur photographer.
It is my ability to communicate that has given me all this.
We are told that actions speak louder than words.
Whether we speak the words with our own voices,
type them with our eyes,
or communicate them non-verbally to someone who speaks them for us,
words are among our most powerful tools.
I have come to you through a terrible darkness,
The act of you listening to me today brings me farther into the light.
We are shining here together.
If there is one most difficult obstacle to my way of communicating,
it is that sometimes I want to shout
It all sounds the same.
But if you will,
because Derek, you re so much more than an iPod.
Thank you.
So I d like to start by focusing on
is dependent on bee pollination.
manifest themselves in the form of discrimination,
and you stand up and you hold a glass of red wine
the main ideas and why this is so cool? 
so I get up every day with this tremendous amount of enthusiasm
that leave a big scar.
But it s not just the microbes in our gut that are important.
people who are poor.
of the biological basis of psychiatric disorders.
There was nothing they could do because the things we use now
And then this happened.
movies that you might like to watch.
and an enraged giant aurochs
Were we being followed?
not many things to choose among?
that we can fill with the most fanciful adventures
mourned all I had not yet done,
There are the participants who have no idea why they re there.
Any more of that sort of talk, you ve got to go and sit
Before most kids are 12, they ll have been to Disney World
Early on its development, they did a very small trial,
and you wait for your product to arrive in the post,
but I do mean wishing people well, for two reasons.
then pointed at my tummy and said,  Too many picnic baskets. 
It s about 10 a.m.
 For once, if you are poor, female,
because they have very little monetary value
convey it to a wastewater treatment plant
will look at you through their Google Glasses
In 1972, Eddy Merckx set the record
And the vertical axis is how often the car is going to apply the brakes
they finally agreed that we could sit down
and then making a decision to do something
We can also imagine
This chart maps the teacher s heart rate
According to the official rules
and more excitingly, they re starting to understand
It can only add new boxes, new bones in the skeleton.
they still have a bad name.
that had an R&amp;amp;D center in USA and in India,
which was, in fact, this huge risk for the institution
because the school has blocked access to Facebook.
and we started. We started to plant, and this
and many people would explicitly say
in a more inspired light.
in texting among young people today.
the emerald gem of the Everglades,
in the next 12 months.
wherever and whenever possibly based on fact.
People come to the table, and even these very blunt,
Derek can play it on.
Claim your experience.
God knows, we don t lack for the challenges.
but personally, having spent many years doing this,
that there is no economic rule
May one.
all that we have built with blood, sweat and dreams;
I have to tell it, because there was no one
Since then, it s happened again in London,
He was suffering.
they re one of the great conservation success stories of the US.
working really hard to keep each other safe and protected.
And then in the most magnificent gesture,
You don t simply want
in the Adirondack Mountains, a wilderness area
represents the unknown?
As a scientist, I always wanted to measure that resonance,
or  Taiye Selasi comes from England and the States. 
The members of the Association are shocked to realize
England, America, Ghana, Nigeria --
CA: And about a year after this picture, you married a beautiful woman.
I d like to talk to you today a little bit about the work
raised in Ghana,
and has lived for over 30 years in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
I went to Louisiana, a museum in Denmark
where I shared the stage with the writer Colum McCann.
over 20 feet a year,
with 24 million subscribers across 14 African countries by 2004.
I m not a national at all.
UNICEF thinks that that s good news
I hold certain truths to be self-evident:
Tesla created his inventions in his mind.
of an and/and model which is
to say that I came from a country
suggested that the country was an absolute,
We were more likely to see signs of dominance
a constant thing, but was it?
That s almost 100 times its own length.
My parents came from countries that didn t exist when they were born.
To me, a country -- this thing that could be born, die, expand, contract --
a tree and a pedestrian, well, that s pretty important.
Now, 20th-century psychologists and sociologists
an idea that came into fashion only 400 years ago.
I felt a sort of surge of relief.
that its umwelt is the entire objective reality out there,
but countries were invented.
my world, my work, my experience,
where you can see 10,000 neurons and 30 million connections.
sketching out an identity that privileged culture over country.
goes through a series of life cycle stages,
if you look at them like those people that you ve given everything to?
Now, if I m honest,
and to democratize it.
Her parents are third-generation Ghanians of Lebanese descent.
Layla, who speaks fluent Twi, knows Accra like the back of her hand,
but when we first met years ago, I thought,  She s not from Ghana. 
it s going to cost tens of trillions of dollars
to redesign the flow of our institutions.
took place in suburban Accra.
you re lying in this strange place, you re on this hospital gurney,
along with ubiquitous reality TV formats
that the language of coming from countries sets --
the privileging of a fiction, the singular country,
 All identity is experience,  I thought.
See,  Taiye Selasi comes from the United States,  isn t the truth.
that are helping young people learn to code.
all 50 of them, not really.
My relationship is with Brookline, the town where I grew up;
with New York City, where I started work;
but these very particular experiences
and the places they occur.
how did this idea come into your head, of  Notepad ?
 Save the lab medical student. 
with the little garden in Dzorwulu where my father and I talk for hours.
in Eastern Europe in the early  90s.
Tell me you re from France, and I see what, a set of clichés?
But once you do, you can see something that s congruent with my strengths,
Now that expense can be huge,
Our experience is where we re from.
So, where are you a local?
You know, in music we take something that we love
I call these the three  R s : rituals, relationships, restrictions.
making your coffee, driving to work,
harvesting your crops, saying your prayers.
What kind of rituals are these?
In what city or cities in the world do shopkeepers know your face?
with adjustments made for the rituals my mother brought from London and Lagos.
We took off our shoes in the house,
we were unfailingly polite with our elders,
we ate slow-cooked, spicy food.
with democracy these days.
The rituals were familiar.
whether it s the live motor neurons
be it face to face or on FaceTime?
Then there was more of a hump.
On June 22, 1772, Lord Mansfield said that slavery was so odious,
When it comes down to the details, we consider everything.
My mother in Accra, my twin sister in Boston,
these relationships are home for me.
 R  number two, relationships.
but how we experience our locality
depends in part on our restrictions.
What passport do you hold?
By civil war, dysfunctional governance, economic inflation,
from living in the locality where you had your rituals as a child?
It s called seashore mallow. Kosteletzkya virginica —
but the question takes us past  Where are you now? 
to  Why aren t you there, and why? 
compared to normals,
and put those three words on top of three columns,
and mind-controlling supervillains --
human resource engine that would be the envy
I have a friend named Olu.
He s 35 years old.
His parents, born in Nigeria, came to Germany on scholarships.
Olu was born in Nuremberg and lived there until age 10.
When his family moved to Lagos, he studied in London,
then came to Berlin.
He loves going to Nigeria --
the weather, the food, the friends --
but hates the political corruption there.
We exist yet. I was last week
which is 250 times fewer cells than you have in one retina,
where his grandparents migrated from Germany, what is now Poland,
Udo studied in Buenos Aires, and nine years ago came to Berlin.
He loves going to Argentina -- the weather, the food, the friends --
but hates the economic corruption there.
With his blonde hair and blue eyes, Udo could pass for German,
but holds an Argentinian passport, so needs a visa to live in Berlin.
And this is absolutely key.
That he s a local of Buenos Aires and Berlin,
that has to do with life.
He speaks Yoruba with an English accent,
and English with a German one.
To claim that he s  not really Nigerian,  though,
denies his experience in Lagos,
the rituals he practiced growing up,
his relationship with family and friends.
around local growing into the heart of Christchurch.
Olu always feels restricted there,
not least by the fact that he s gay.
from living where some of their most meaningful rituals
about the possible ethical ramifications
To say Olu is from Nigeria and Udo is from Argentina
and they know how to do integrated decision making.
we re using a kind of shorthand.
It s quicker to say  Nigeria  than  Lagos and Berlin, 
from country to city to neighborhood.
But that s not quite the point.
isn t the specificity of the answer;
it s the intention of the question.
Even that most glorious expression of countryhood, the World Cup,
gives us national teams comprised mostly of multilocal players.
As a unit of measurement for human experience,
one fixed and fictional entity bumping up against another.
(Music) (Laughter)
layers that merge together, that can t be denied or removed.
but you can t take away my experience.
That I carry within me.
Where I m from comes wherever I go.
So Diver A and Diver B both have a wearable computer
Geography, tradition, collective memory: these things are important.
as if knowing what country I came from would tell my audience who I was.
And what are we really seeing when we hear an answer?
basically, countries represent power.
China. Russia. Ambiguous.
It s possible that without realizing it, we re playing a power game,
especially in the context of multi-ethnic countries.
As any recent immigrant knows,
the question  Where are you from?  or  Where are you really from? 
is often code for  Why are you here? 
of elite American colleges.
 Students think that their environment is diverse
if one comes from Missouri and another from Pakistan --
never mind that all of their parents are doctors or bankers. 
To call one student American, another Pakistani,
then triumphantly claim student body diversity
ignores the fact that these students are locals of the same milieu.
The same holds true on the other end of the economic spectrum.
have more in common in terms of rituals and restrictions
is the myth of going back to them.
I m often asked if I plan to  go back  to Ghana.
I go to Accra every year, but I can t  go back  to Ghana.
It s not because I wasn t born there.
My father can t go back, either.
The country in which he was born,
 software glitch,  and actually did turn on
We can never go back to a place and find it exactly where we left it.
Something, somewhere will always have changed,
most of all, ourselves.
This captain is going to use our findings on the optimism bias
Finally, what we re talking about is human experience,
this notoriously and gloriously disorderly affair.
We need caring economics.
the more local color and texture,
the more human the characters start to feel,
the more relatable, not less.
The myth of national identity and the vocabulary of coming from
confuses us into placing ourselves into mutually exclusive categories.
In fact, all of us are multi -- multi-local, multi-layered.
To begin our conversations with an acknowledgement of this complexity
brings us closer together, I think, not further apart.
So the next time that I m introduced,
I d love to hear the truth:
OK.
She isn t a citizen of the world, but a citizen of worlds.
She is a local of New York, Rome and Accra. 
(Applause)
carried with them on their final journey.
Management teams seem increasingly
Mark Kelly: Yeah, it s amazing,
This is my father s work Christmas party, December 1973.
The headlines called them savages and barbarians,
But we ve made essentially no progress at all in treating Alzheimer s disease.
I m part of a team of scientists
you can see the blood run from their face.
So I think about this all the time.
So what happens is, we have to rely
I m not a scientist. I could have been, perhaps,
your chance of getting Alzheimer s will be almost one in two.
asks all of us, which is, what would I do if I wasn t afraid?
Let me explain this in a little more detail.
and our position was, books are technology --
that we ve seen grown up.
We understand less about the science of Alzheimer s than other diseases
because we ve invested less time and money into researching it.
The US government spends 10 times more every year
that is three times the size of
absolutely fatal.
sort of a flip flop.
someone who could use the information.
of a healthy aged brain compared to the brain of an Alzheimer s patient
Let s pause here.
by a parasitic wasp which laid eggs inside it.
and that was from one human to another.
forming clumps that eventually become large plaques and tangles.
There are many steps, and identifying which step to try to block is complex --
and this modified this initial pattern.
It s a nonprofit association.
things like fight diseases.
and you can see they re moving around normally.
These worms, on the other hand,
No German soldier fell to the ground.
You can t get rid of it.
This is just an initial positive result, but research like this
he was running in the direction of my church,
But I think there s a greater story here still.
will we do better than cash given directly?
If you pour water on that, it dissolves.
And their families, the hidden victims, caring for their loved ones night and day,
a Burmese prison,
that prove that when somebody knows
based on four healthy habits:
It is called  the history of the world. 
or a trickle of DNA
But you bring to a crisis the person you already are,
between human limitation and human potential.
because I expect it to be a place filled with rare
in order to hold things in place before I varnish
As we ve said, it s pretty bad for your health,
it starts out like a horror story.
And you must have seen this illusion.
that was enabled by the Internet
I changed my research from traditional data-mining
and manually emptied.
necessary to go on and do procedures.
and when I say I didn t join the Army
(Laughter)
He decided to tell it to me
this was a subject in which I felt particularly passionate.
where we have hundreds of thousands of bees
and it s also the reason
improvise, play off your scene partner.
But when I looked at the data,
and that you have to discover when you get to see them in peers.
We heard from a man out of Zimbabwe,
glow bioluminescent,
and people as well;
about the reform process going on
We see by reflecting.
PM: Gabby, what did make you want to marry Mark?
What would they do under the same conditions?
Besides, creature of extremes and excess,
Another factor in Gando is rain.
been many other examples, and try and identify
everywhere in the country.
Everybody s welcome.
I m talking about mindful eating:
I think it s going to be older people.
It s called smart failure. Why? Because you can t put it on your C.V.
those two together to make good is very interesting.
A question I m often asked is,
where did I get my passion for human rights and justice?
It started early.
I grew up in the west of Ireland,
wedged between four brothers,
And suddenly, everything that you had planned
So of course I had to be interested in human rights,
and equality and justice,
that transparency and openness
(Laughter)
And those issues stayed with me and guided me,
and in particular,
when I was elected the first woman President of Ireland,
is we re always changing the car.
and I had been for three years.
to having a space for those who felt marginalized on the island of Ireland,
and bringing together communities from Northern Ireland
I called her back, and that s when she told me
It was an amazing story, and it piqued my interest.
And I went as the first Irish president to the United Kingdom
and met with Queen Elizabeth II,
and also welcomed to my official residence --
and clarity to your own life.
members of the royal family,
including, notably, the Prince of Wales.
And I was aware that at the time of my presidency,
Ireland was a country beginning a rapid economic progress.
We were a country that was benefiting from the solidarity of the European Union.
Indeed, when Ireland first joined the European Union in 1973,
there were parts of the country that were considered developing,
including my own beloved native county, County Mayo.
I led trade delegations here to the United States,
to Japan, to India,
to encourage investment, to help to create jobs,
to build up our economy,
And they re inscribed in there forever --
our development.
What I didn t have to do as president
This is the first one, and this is showing, over the last 900 years,
so that Irish citizens could go there because our island was going underwater.
What I didn t have to think about,
either as president or as a constitutional lawyer,
was the implications for the sovereignty of the territory
So, in B.I., life was simple.
Now — (Laughter) —
has to wake up every morning thinking about.
He has bought land in Fiji as an insurance policy,
to minimize the risks of what you re going through.
because he knows that his people may have to leave their islands.
that made it much more difficult for civilians to buy a gun,
I really felt that this was a problem that no leader should have to face.
And as I heard him speak about the pain of his problems,
Perhaps you saw the film,
 Freedom, not fear. 
and drew up the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
For them, it would have been unimaginable
but they don t rest until they find a resolution
because of human-induced climate change.
And then one day, my colleague walked into my office,
for more than a hundred years.
and so I reached out again on Facebook and LinkedIn,
Now a few things you might like to know about prime numbers.
and the impact on their rights --
their rights to food and safe water, health, education and shelter.
And I say this with humility,
you ll see that they re all very similar to one another.
When I served
as UN High Commissioner for Human Rights
was basically a distribution business.
climate change wasn t at the front of my mind.
I don t remember making a single speech on climate change.
And you ll notice that he s struggling with stability as he s walking.
the UN Convention on Climate Change --
that was dealing with the issue of climate change.
It was later when I started to work in African countries
on issues of development and human rights.
how vaccines work in a simple way.
 Oh, but things are so much worse now, things are so much worse. 
And then I explored what was behind that;
it was about changes in the climate --
climate shocks, changes in the weather.
I met Constance Okollet,
who had formed a women s group in Eastern Uganda,
you better believe there was some opposition.
as she said, down this path to become
they knew that the seasons would come as they were predicted to come,
they knew when to sow and they knew when to harvest,
and so they had enough food.
But, in recent years,
at the time of this conversation,
they had nothing but long periods of drought,
these hemispherical speaker arrays.
and then more drought.
livelihoods had been destroyed,
their harvest had been destroyed.
She forms this women s group to try to keep her community together.
And this was a reality that really struck me,
because of course, Constance Okollet wasn t responsible
for the greenhouse gas emissions that were causing this problem.
Indeed, I was very struck about the situation in Malawi
in January of this year.
It s decentralized, it s peer-to-peer,
it covered about a third of the country,
over 300 people were killed,
and hundreds of thousands lost their livelihoods.
And the average person in Malawi
emits about 80 kg of CO2 a year.
The average US citizen emits about 17.5 metric tons.
Slowly and slowly --
without compensation.
and yet they are feeling more and more
SL: You were the one who made me a parent. That s a good point. (Laughter)
the changes that are preventing them from knowing how to grow food properly,
and knowing how to look after their future.
I think it was really the importance of the injustice
that really struck me very forcibly.
And I know that we re not able to address some of that injustice
because we re not on course for a safe world.
Governments around the world agreed at the conference in Copenhagen,
that we have to stay below two degrees Celsius
of warming above pre-Industrial standards.
(Laughter) (Applause)
So we face an existential threat to the future of our planet.
And that made me realize
that climate change is the greatest threat to human rights in the 21st century.
And that brought me then to climate justice.
Climate justice responds to the moral argument --
both sides of the moral argument --
to address climate change.
First of all,
to be on the side of those who are suffering most and are most effected.
And secondly,
to make sure that they re not left behind again, when we start to move
Instead, they ve been hacked.
but very encouraging,
In our very unequal world today,
it s very striking how many people are left behind.
In our world of 7.2 billion people, about 3 billion are left behind.
1.3 billion don t have access to electricity,
and they light their homes with kerosene and candles,
both of which are dangerous.
And in fact they spend a lot of their tiny income on that form of lighting.
He just knew that he wanted to have a career as a scientist
on coal, wood and animal dung.
And this causes about 4 million deaths a year
from indoor smoke inhalation,
and of course, most of those who die are women.
So we have a very unequal world,
and we need to change from  business as usual. 
And we shouldn t underestimate the scale and the transformative nature
of the change which will be needed,
because we have to go to zero carbon emissions by about 2050,
if we re going to stay below two degrees Celsius of warming.
And that means we have to leave about two-thirds of the known resources
It s a very big change,
and it means that obviously,
So the work of innovation, the work of coming up with new ideas,
must become much more energy-efficient,
and must move as quickly as possible to renewable energy.
just watch what happens
the problem and the challenge is to grow without emissions,
because they must develop; they have very poor populations.
So they must develop without emissions, and that is a different kind of problem.
Indeed, no country in the world has actually grown without emissions.
All the countries have developed with fossil fuels,
and then may be moving to renewable energy.
So it is a very big challenge,
and it requires the total support of the international community,
with the necessary finance and technology, and systems and support,
because no country can make itself safe from the dangers of climate change.
This is an issue that requires complete human solidarity.
but the Koreans were concerned that only a small share
because we are all in this together,
from bench to bedside.
to ensure that we reach zero carbon by 2050.
And on the third attempt,
and it s happening very fast.
Here in California,
there s a very ambitious emissions target to cut emissions.
In Hawaii, they re passing legislation
to have 100 percent renewable energy by 2045.
And governments are very ambitious around the world.
In Costa Rica, they have committed to being carbon-neutral by 2021.
In Ethiopia, the commitment is to be carbon-neutral by 2027.
Apple have pledged that their factories in China will use renewable energy.
And there is a race on at the moment
to convert electricity from tidal and wave power,
in order that we can leave the coal in the ground.
but of course I couldn t hear it
But it s still not enough,
and the political will is still not enough.
upstreamists have at the end of their name.
They actually could be able to live on their island and have a solution,
but it would take a lot of political will.
President Tong told me about his ambitious idea
to either build up or even float the little islands where his people live.
This, of course, is beyond the resources of Kiribati itself.
it looks like everyone around me
and it would require the kind of imaginative idea
that we bring together when we want to have a space station in the air.
Thank you.
who have jumped off the bridge and lived
and be part of the community of nations?
That is the kind of idea that we should be thinking about.
Yes, the challenges of the transformation we need are big,
but they can be solved.
We are actually, as a people,
very capable of coming together to solve problems.
I was very conscious of this as I took part this year
in commemoration of the 70th anniversary
of the end of the Second World War in 1945.
1945 was an extraordinary year.
It was a year when the world faced
what must have seemed almost insoluble problems --
the devastation of the world wars, particularly the Second World War;
the fragile peace that had been brought about;
the need for a whole economic regeneration.
But the leaders of that time didn t flinch from this.
They had the capacity, they had a sense of being driven by
never again must the world have this kind of problem.
And they had to build structures for peace and security.
And what did we get? What did they achieve?
The Charter of the United Nations,
the Bretton Woods institutions, as they re called, The World Bank,
and the International Monetary Fund.
A Marshall Plan for Europe, a devastated Europe,
to reconstruct it.
And indeed a few years later,
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
2015 is a year that is similar in its importance
to 1945, with similar challenges and similar potential.
There will be two big summits this year:
the first one, in September in New York,
is the summit for the sustainable development goals.
It is a Tinker Bell moment,
The sustainable development goals are intended to help countries
to live sustainably, in tune with Mother Earth,
not to take out of Mother Earth and destroy ecosystems,
but rather, to live in harmony with Mother Earth,
by living under sustainable development.
And the sustainable development goals
will come into operation for all countries
and its famous opening sentence,
I don t have time to go into, but the one that I wanted
a binding climate agreement --
is needed because of the scientific evidence
that we re on a trajectory for about a four-degree world
and we have to change course to stay below two degrees.
So we need to take steps that will be monitored and reviewed,
so that we can keep increasing the ambition of how we cut emissions,
and how we move more rapidly to renewable energy,
so that we have a safe world.
The reality is that this issue is much too important
to be left to politicians and to the United Nations.
(Laughter)
It s an issue for all of us,
and it s an issue where we need more and more momentum.
Everybody.
because of the justice dimension.
It s now an issue for faith-based organizations,
under very good leadership from Pope Francis,
is a 747.
which is divesting from fossil fuels.
It s an issue for the business community,
and the good news is
that the business community is changing very rapidly --
except for the fossil fuel industries --
(Laughter)
Even they are beginning to slightly change their language --
We dressed a cowboy as Johnny Cash
But business is not only moving rapidly to the benefits of renewable energy,
but is urging politicians to give them more signals,
so that they can move even more rapidly.
It s an issue for the trade union movement.
It s an issue for the women s movement.
It s an issue for young people.
I was very struck when I learned that Jibreel Khazan,
one of the Greensboro Four who had taken part in the Woolworth sit-ins,
said quite recently that
climate change is the lunch counter moment for young people.
So, lunch counter moment for young people of the 21st century --
the sort of real human rights issue of the 21st century,
because he said it is the greatest challenge
to humanity and justice in our world.
I recall very much the Climate March last September,
and that was a huge momentum,
not just in New York, but all around the world.
and we have to build on that.
I was marching with some of The Elders family,
We remember when we are deeply engaged.
Or imagine mothers on opposite sides of a conflict somewhere in the world
because after all, there were 400,000 people out in the streets of New York --
so I couldn t quite get to that placard,
I would have just liked to have been able to step behind it,
because it said,  Angry Grannies! 
(Laughter)
That s what I felt.
And I have five grandchildren now,
I feel very happy as an Irish grandmother to have five grandchildren,
has up to 10,000 species of insects in it,
and what it will be like when they will share that world
with about 9 billion other people in 2050.
We know that inevitably it will be a climate-constrained world,
because of the emissions we ve already put up there,
but it could be a world that is much more equal and much fairer,
and much better for health, and better for jobs
and better for energy security,
than the world we have now,
And this shows what an electroencephalogram is,
and no one is left behind.
No one is left behind.
And just as we ve been looking back this year --
in 2015 to 1945, looking back 70 years --
I would like to think that they will look back,
that world will look back 35 years from 2050,
35 years to 2015,
and that they will say,
 Weren t they good to do what they did in 2015?
We really appreciate that they took the decisions that made a difference,
and that put the world on the right pathway,
and we benefit now from that pathway, 
that they will feel that somehow we took our responsibilities,
we did what was done in 1945 in similar terms,
we didn t miss the opportunity,
we lived up to our responsibilities.
That s what this year is about.
And somehow for me,
it s captured in words of somebody that I admired very much.
She was a mentor of mine, she was a friend,
she died much too young,
she was an extraordinary personality,
a great champion of the environment:
Wangari Maathai.
Wangari said once,
 In the course of history,
there comes a time when humanity is called upon
to shift to a new level of consciousness,
to reach a higher moral ground. 
And that s what we have to do.
We have to reach a new level of consciousness,
a higher moral ground.
And we have to do it this year in those two big summits.
And that won t happen unless we have the momentum
from people around the world who say:
 We want action now,
we want to change course,
we want a safe world,
a safe world for future generations,
a safe world for our children and our grandchildren,
and we re all in this together. 
Thank you.
(Applause)
and I m not talking about  Game of Thrones, 
(Laughter)
and then at the United States Department of Justice.
Their names have become familiar:
James Foley, Steven Sotloff, David Haines, Alan Henning, Peter Kassig,
and how form can touch people s soul and emotion.
called  The World Is Flat,  he said, basically, in his book
We would read some text in feminist theory and have a conversation about it.
We don t do things like that.
and then when you say,  children,  they will pretty quickly agree with you.
So we could get three thumbs together,
The Islamic State beheadings
So let me be very clear:
pain and anxiety compared with men.
had watched the beheading of James Foley
Therefore at Gapminder we made our own map,
while she should be going to school,
That s a perfectly rational thing.
a demographic kick from a new generation
had watched the videos but had stopped just before the death was shown.
Cities are where most of the wealth is created,
as their common denominator.
across search engines like Google, Lycos, Yahoo.
to have a standby crew of people 24 hours a day
One Dutch website owner said that his daily viewing figures
(Applause)
Now look at what happens at the very end of this.
a hardware platform, an assembler, a virtual machine,
because there are not enough people to pay property taxes
If you have kids, and they have kids,
Weidmann was due to be executed at the crack of dawn,
So this is a big collaboration of different countries
And I tried to thank him for doing his work
and a spectator in the crowd filmed the event,
is helping us to explore these fossil deposits.
The crowd on the day of Weidmann s execution
And every single time I did the show at the beginning,
and the geriatrician will try and hold back the sands of time,
and now we ve got 60 percent better cotton in our business.
In London, as late as the early 19th century,
We use a system of two leach pits to treat the waste.
five men known as the Cato Street Conspirators
allowed things to scale even more.
a review as sound.
They don t compromise.
Now, at first, this was very difficult to believe,
Evidence suggests that throughout our history
I set out to look at natural forms.
 You ve got testicular cancer. 
Compared to the sugarcane charcoal,
The end of torturous public judicial executions in Europe and America
in producing the guts for the electric vehicle, like the lithium ion battery.
Finally I met a very nice mayor in Onagawa village
but works for the left and the right,
the demonstrations of the month of May,
that the U.S. s population is over 300 million,
This is what goes on in my studio everyday.
Our activities online are often contrasted with real life,
We feel less accountable for our actions
that began 65 million years ago
The Internet also makes it far easier to stumble upon things inadvertently,
And when the action is pre-recorded
Andrew the instructor got in the front, started the airplane up.
All these things make it easier as an Internet user
CA: Ed, one response to this whole debate is this:
When the victim of a decapitation is bound and defenseless,
that represents the luck and skill it takes to win a fight,
when a beheading is staged,
The problem is that there s just not nearly enough of them out there.
Now the event is stretched out in time and place,
but we know we won t.
History tells us we won t,
and the killers know it too.
Thank you.
and increase the beauty and the cultural significance
Frances Larson: I used to work at a museum
without really understanding what they were seeing,
Why do I say that we re in range? Well, this is basically it.
(Arabic) I seek refuge in Allah from cursed Satan. In the Name of Allah, the most Gracious, the most Merciful.
and one evening,
My father was five years old when he lost his father,
but by the time I was born,
of politics and culture and economics that shapes
OK, so these are LP records and they ve been replaced, right?
if his children were going to be a boy or a girl:
they were going to go to school.
first and foremost.
My mother had 16 pregnancies.
From 16 pregnancies, five of us are alive.
You can imagine as a child what I went through.
Day to day, I watched women
being carried to a graveyard,
or watched children going to a graveyard.
At that time, when I finished my high school,
We live in a modern, global world.
I wanted to be a doctor to help women and children.
If you think about it,
but I wanted to go to university.
Unfortunately, in my country, there wasn t a dormitory for girls,
so I was accepted in medical school, but I could not go there.
What we have is exactly the same thing, the same activity,
Yes, let me give you a few more quotes.
While I was completing my education,
my country was invaded by Russia.
And do you know that at the time I was completing my education,
But with those seeds, from day one, we are growing in my classroom,
There were months, years, I didn t know about it.
My family was in a refugee camp.
So as soon as I completed my education,
I brought my family to America.
But where was my heart?
My heart was in Afghanistan.
It s when I started to feel that the cybernetic device
Then we were victims of the French.
can we reduce that death toll? Can we save
I really wanted to go back to my country,
but at the same time I knew I could not go there,
because there was no place for me.
something felt off.
I was a professor at a university.
I had a good life.
some to older men, some in exchange,
I could live with them.
But I wasn t happy.
I wanted to go back home.
It wasn t until I entered high school that I thought,
when it comes to natural disasters.
there were 7.5 million refugees.
7.5 million refugees.
About 90 percent of them were women and children.
Most of the men have been killed or they were in war.
I believe that s true.
when I went day-to-day to do a survey,
I found things you never could imagine.
I saw a widow with five to eight children
sitting there and weeping
and not knowing what to do.
I saw a young woman have no way to go anywhere,
no education, no entertainment, no place to even live.
We can t settle for that,
to our world going black as the windows were thrust underwater,
being the head of the household,
You know, I remember having a Muslim group from the U.K.
So it was a very devastating situation.
My heart was beating for my people,
and I didn t know what to do.
Now, the Sock Puppet, on the other hand,
At that moment, I felt, what can I do for these people?
How could I help these people?
(Laughter)
But at that moment, I knew
There s still a huge risk that there will be additional cases there.
It transformed me. It gave me status.
It gave me confidence. It gave me a career.
It helped me to support my family,
what kids can do across a very narrow spectrum of achievement.
Once upon a time, Scarlet was used as bait in dog fights.
But he didn t.
that what I should give to my people is education and health,
and that s what I went after.
But do you think it was easy?
and in all honesty, the pursuit of normality
And also, by Russia invading Afghanistan,
people were not trusting anyone.
Now, this is a really important discovery, I think,
Who am I?
Somebody who comes from the United States.
Somebody who got educated here.
Did they trust me? Of course not.
So what have we learned?
Interacting changes the way you behave,
I went and surveyed and looked and looked.
I asked.
Finally, I found one man.
He was 80 years old.
I went to his tent in the camp,
and I asked him,
 I want to make you a teacher. 
And he looked at me,
and he said,  Crazy woman,
crazy woman, how do you think I can be a teacher? 
And I told him,  I will make you a teacher. 
Finally, he accepted my offer,
and once I started a class in his compound,
the word spread all over.
In a matter of one year,
we had 25 schools set up,
15,000 children going to school,
and it was amazing.
(Applause)
Thank you.
But of course, we re doing all our work, we were giving teacher training.
There s no major difference between these religions.
So what do we do about this? Well, the fact is
but the free stuff that I get is the free stuff that I get in real life,
one day I was in the office in Peshawar, Pakistan.
All of a sudden, I saw my staff running to rooms and locking the doors
and telling me,  Run away, hide! 
(Applause)
You re scared. You know it s dangerous.
when they try to mirror each other
It s a lot harder to meet them where they are
You have to hold it together and show strength.
of people I d known,
the amount of children pouring out of every building.
So I invited them to the office.
They came, and there were nine of them -- nine Taliban.
They were the ugliest looking men you can ever see.
(Laughter)
In order for us to build safely,
black clothes, black turban,
it says San Francisco across the bottom.
And I invited them to have a seat and have tea.
They said no. They are not going to drink tea.
And of course, with the tone of voice they were using,
down the mouth part,
but I was really shaking up.
But also I was strong, holding myself up.
And, of course, by that time, you know how I dress --
mobile health clinics, widely distributed throughout sub-Saharan Africa. 
The only thing you could see, my eyes.
They asked me,  What are you doing?
Don t you know that school is banned for girls?
Getting it wrong, and the pharmaceutical industry
And you know, I just looked at them,
and I said,  What school? Where is the school? 
(Laughter)
(Laughter) (Applause)
And they look at my face, and they said,  You are teaching girls here. 
I said,  This is a house of somebody.
We have some students coming,
and they are all learning Koran, Holy Book.
We d have to learn to fear infections that now seem minor.
they can be a good wife,
My brain started thinking.
(Laughter)
And I tell you one thing:
that s the way you work with those people, and you know --
(Laughter)
So by that time, they started speaking Pashto.
and so we can eliminate those 4,000 diseases
and they said,  Let s go, leave her alone, she s OK. 
And you know, this time, I offered them tea again,
and they took a sip and they laughed.
By that time, my staff poured into my office.
They were scared to death.
They didn t know why they didn t kill me.
The only thing this bird did was fly against this window
But everybody was happy to see me.
front and center in trying to control
(Laughter)
you get control,
But also, as we continuously gave training during the fall of the Taliban --
of course during the Taliban there is another story.
We went underground and we provided education for 80 schoolgirls,
3,000 students underground, and continuously we trained.
With the fall of the Taliban, we went into the country,
and we opened school after school.
was the fact that they had good mentors.
We continuously opened clinics.
We worked with mothers and children.
We had reproductive health training.
We had all kinds of training that you can imagine.
I was very happy. I was delighted with the outcome of my work.
And one day, with four trainers and one bodyguard,
Our biggest seller is Schadenfreude,
and all of a sudden, again,
I was stopped in the middle of the road
by 19 young men.
Rifles on their shoulders, they blocked the road.
And I told my driver,  What s going on? 
And the driver said,  I don t know. 
He asked them. They said,  We have nothing to do with you. 
They called my name. They said,  We want her. 
My bodyguard got out, said,  I can answer you.
are going to be able to do with this great tool.
They said,  Nothing.  They called my name.
And by that time, the women are yelling and screaming inside the car.
I am very shaken up, and I told myself, this is it.
This time, we all are going to be killed.
There is no doubt in my mind.
But still, the moment comes, and you take strength
from whatever you believe and whatever you do.
It s in your heart.
for this leadership training that we re offering.
on the gut microbial community and on later health
My leg was shaking, and I got outside.
And I asked them,  What can I do for you? 
You know what they said to me?
Let them object however they want, but give me a word that s nicer
Now what I want to share with you is
Every day you go up north here and there.
You train women, you teach them
and also you give them an opportunity to have a job.
You build their skills. How about us? 
(Laughter)
(Applause)
and my children will also raise their children here.
What are we going to do? 
who were ready to go, ready to die.
(Laughter)
They said,  It s OK.
The only thing we can do, what we know,
from the time we re born, we just hold the gun and kill.
That s all we know. 
And you know what that means.
It s a trap to me, of course.
So I walk out of there. They said,  We ll let you go, go. 
 No state shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities
and I told the driver,  Turn around and go back to the office. 
and was widely read when it first appeared.
the relative standing of countries
to send them to school, and nothing else.
By the time I came to the office,
of course my trainers were gone.
Thank you all so much. (Applause)
Our forest in Brazil, that antique forest
and I said,  What am I going to do? 
How am I going to solve this problem?
Because we had training going on up north already.
So I was sitting there, all of a sudden, at this moment,
talking about momentum, we are,
at that moment,
one of my wonderful donors called me about a report.
And she asked me,  Sakena?  And I answered her.
She said,  It s not you. What s wrong with you? 
I said,  Nothing.  I tried to cover.
No matter what I tried to do, she didn t believe me,
and she asked me again.
 OK, tell me what s going on? 
I told her the whole story.
At that time, she said,  OK, you go next time, and you will help them.
You will help them. 
And when, two days later, I went the same route,
and do you know, they were not in here,
they were a little back further,
the same young men, standing up there and holding the rifle
and pointing to us to stop the car.
So we stopped the car.
I got out. I said,  OK, let s go with me. 
And they said,  Yes. 
I said,  On one condition, that whatever I say, you accept it. 
And they said, yes, they do.
the flies are no longer hyperactive, but they still can t learn.
and to make a long story short,
I told them I d give them teachers.
Today, they are the best trainers.
They learn English,
they learn how to be teachers,
they learn computers,
and they are my guides.
Every area that is unknown to us in the mountain areas,
they go with me. They are ahead, and we go.
Let s say that you were a murderer
And --
(Applause)
so the strokes break well
parents and teachers in those countries
So they, right there, you know, they took me out the door,
When you educate people,
they are going to be different,
and today all over,
we need to work for gender equality.
We cannot only train women but forget about the men,
because the men are the real people who are giving women the hardest time.
(Laughter)
So we started training men because the men should know
the potential of women,
know how much these potential men has,
and how much these women can do the same job they are doing.
For me, art is not about objects of high monetary exchange.
and I really believe strongly.
I live in a country that was a beautiful country.
public opinion is a very good excuse to punish him.
It was a beautiful country,
beautiful, peaceful country.
We were going everywhere.
Women were getting education:
lawyer, engineer, teacher,
On this view, it s consciousness
and I just became a bit obsessed with transportation systems.
But you know what happened to my country.
Today, people cannot walk out of their door without security issues.
But we want the same Afghanistan we had before.
And I want to tell you the other side.
whenever you put your iPhone next to your keyboard.
They are earning degrees. They are training to be lawyers.
They are training to be doctors, back again.
They are training to be teachers,
and they are running businesses.
So it is so wonderful
to see people like that reach their complete potential,
and all of this is going to happen.
So if I m understanding correctly,
because of love,
because of compassion,
and because of trust and honesty.
If you have these few things with you,
you will accomplish.
We have one poet, Mawlānā Rūmī.
He said that by having compassion
and having love, you can conquer the world.
And I tell you, we could.
And if we could do it in Afghanistan,
I am sure 100 percent that everyone can do it in any part of the world.
Thank you very, very much.
(Applause)
Thank you. Thank you.
(Applause)
And this is right about when I got this sage advice to build up my resume.
before they try them out in real life.
and how my father and his friends were going to build these big ships.
As a photographer, I took thousands of images,
for the physical earthquake to travel.
just loses water into the air.
such as the measles.
It literally is that basic a way of making a sound.
for something that will happen in a hundred years. 
Sixty-six years after the Wright Brothers
It would spread throughout the world very, very quickly.
what went wrong, and what do I want to repeat,
that helps to let the sunlight enter deep into the space
In fact, traditional assessments
were able to get a gauge for what coral reefs do
and bought hundreds of lawn chairs,
So here we have the Peek Vision app.
It s a hungry emotion. It must be fed.
This is one of my specimens.
to make this progress.
Either we give up, or we never start in the first place.
but they form almost a badge of identity.
to continue putting polluting facilities in my neighborhood.
and is invited to post their results
to feel that we can really ever experience life
and I said,  This city is going on a diet,
a human place of possibility in space at large.
and it could well be that a drug that worked wonderfully
And he dives in, swims off. OK.
A whirlpool, for Steve Grand, is a thing with just as much reality
Right now, I m about at the speed of sound.
Maybe it s this possibility of a guarantee
However, I want fights like this
And we re finding more and more gender differences in the brain.
but it would be intelligent.
(Laughter)
as measured by their health,
we have to do something we re not very good at,
which is other alternative technologies
personal example, a couple years ago.
We changed the environment, not just treated the eyes.
I flew to New York with some our participants
there s some stuff we know that we can do.
their wives are happier and healthier,
I say that s nonsense.
(Applause)
Because this is the group of people that inspires possibility.
No one can tell you you can t surround yourself with inspiring people
And geriatricians try to hold back the sands of time
And the thing is, it s starting to happen on a widespread level.
So I invite all of you to join the mission
of whether that student will be ready for college.
(Applause)
Speaking of Gandhi, he was a recovering lawyer,
Everything was impossible until somebody did it.
You can either hang around the people who tell you it can t be done
And she explained the income that she was getting out of her business
(Applause)
Because I see it as our responsibility to show the world
You can feel deep attachment to a long-term partner
And as we finish up, I have just one question to ask you guys,
Discover that, live it,
but make sure that that community component is strong.
We ve mapped the afterglow
In 2008, we formed the World Wide Web Foundation
So billions of dollars in our society
But we re talking about perception here, right?
that we could prohibit alcohol.
It is a luxury, I will say to the white people sitting in this room,
that all energy on this planet actually comes from the Sun,
I was very nervous.
(Laughter)
the international community largely ignored them.
So, liberating these pages
And he s like,  I don t know, but I can show you. 
So the article was published online
looking out the front window,
You re going to stand right here.
to harness this waste resource and turn it into a fuel
 to pass the baton of concern and hope
I know everyone wants to save these mothers and these children.
So my first impulse in the face of all of this attention
This is India
And more than in Haiti, this produces really smoky fires,
inadvertent icons for the process of falling in love,
It s like a coin flip; it doesn t count, really.
What would knowing whether or not we were still together really tell them?
any images that are faces of any kind,
means building customized books.
Idiot, Robbins.
there s also a cultural challenge,
And no side of the political spectrum
and your voice came on,
connected to mass transit.
that pairs the personal questions with four minutes of eye contact,
you might create what we call lateral lift,
So a few months ago, I was giving a talk
because they thought that smallpox was the visitation of a deity,
 So, I tried your study, and it didn t work. 
They re creating a whole new set of ways
(Video) Ground control. Everyone ready?
which was basically my entire adult life,
I thought I was just doing research for this book I was writing --
Frugal innovation is also about making high tech
They treated me like I was nothing.
So the story that the media told about the 36 questions
Now I know people will say,
somehow lost the metabolic machinery
and it s true that these questions do provide a mechanism
So 40 years hence, when you add it all up,
But I think when it comes to love,
we are too willing to accept the short version of the story.
AE: Hi there!
So rather than that question,
How do you decide who deserves your love
The group discussed,
I don t necessarily know the answers to these questions,
You have a conventional one-bedroom arrangement
that you can take this drogue parachute and wrap it around,
this next generation of African leaders,
What kind of world do people want to belong in at Pixar?
per ton of food waste. It s much better to feed it to pigs.
as we heard yesterday from a number of presentations,
(Cheers)
I mean, the word gender is about women.
all these men and women should be free to decide
and we add to this online information every single time we post on Facebook,
She no longer danced.
This also reminded us of two very different pictorial traditions.
And during one of our conversations,
which in turn sends commands to the quad,
Shakespeare s Julius Caesar.
Let me ask you a question. 
 When you wake up in the morning and you look in the mirror,
And the black woman said,  You see, that s the problem for me.
Because when I wake up in the morning and I look in the mirror,  she said,
To me, race is visible. But to you, race is invisible. You don t see it. 
have decided to begin this journey,
And the idea was that you could take waste paper;
Privilege is invisible to those who have it.
Now remember, I was the only man in this group,
In New Orleans, the I-10 Twin Spans,
they were about me.
That s a remarkable number because
like Ethiopia, we are at 50 percent.
in order to recognize specific molecules inside of the brain,
but I was reminded of it quite recently at my university where I teach.
It mainly uses one cell type,
So the servers are managed by a ragtag band of volunteers.
I give a guest lecture for her when she teaches.
 Oh, finally, an objective opinion. 
You re a woman. You re biased. 
and almost always kill itself quite quickly.
(Laughter)
or men who have sex with men
(Laughter) (Applause)
And that, by the way, is why I think men so often wear ties.
were taking you over here.
Day seven, they show the classic scars of smallpox umbilication.
When they failed, it wasn t because they were dumb,
and they go,  Oh my God, yes, gender equality, 
and they will immediately begin to mansplain to you your oppression.
we ll take it from here. 
(Laughter) (Applause)
that sees gender equality as something that is detrimental to men.
(Laughter)
Here s how the experience works today.
who believed that they, white men in America,
And they all told stories about how they were qualified for jobs,
And the reason I m telling you this is I want you to hear the title
Let me tell you that there s not too many people interested
Wealth is not just about wealth.
and it s about the title of the show,
The camera is actually not only understanding your hand movements,
or  A Black Woman Got A Job?  
perceptual devices
I don t think we ll ever understand why so many men resist gender equality.
because just providing free content to people
so any policy that tilts it even a little bit,
And this goes into my last point.
It s reverse discrimination against us. 
(Laughter)
Transparency is about the communication of information.
white men in Europe and the United States
Now this is a dependence too,
in the history of the world.
Seven days later, Eric was set free
But more than that,
It turns out, according to most studies,
Thank you.
It is also good for companies.
to Cote d Ivoire, to Ghana, to Nigeria, to Cameroon.
and we think this is the future.
nearly 20 years ago, there were 200,000 children living
Why does it cost 22 dollars?
And I say,  Oh no, in fact, what you have to start calculating
is how much gender inequality is already costing you.
in more preschool education
It is good for the kind of lives we want to live,
because young men especially have changed enormously,
You bring in, say, six objects,
and it s not that hard.
if someone said,  My likelihood of suffering from cancer
Some of you may remember this.
When I look into these data images,
Some of you may wince to remember this riddle.
So you really can bring into a village,
(Laughter)
and they re in a terrible accident,
To make a product, to market an idea,
but rezoning was never my mission.
 Oh, I can t treat him, that s my son. 
is because it s backlighting most of the time, most cell phones.
We were flummoxed by this.
So I decided I would pose this riddle to them,
Well, 16-year-old boys,
If you re outside on a spacewalk and you re blinded,
It would be insane to call Hamlet a loser.
That s an index, an indicator of how things have changed.
They want to be involved fathers.
It gives you the ability to personalize the learning experience
the happier both partners are.
This trend has been steady for a quarter of a millennium,
what you need to do is very simple.
Here s what the data show.
Now, when men begin the process of engaging
we often have two phrases that we use to describe what we do.
(Laughter)
And I m going to propose something a little bit more radical,
one word:  share. 
(Laughter)
Because here s what the data show:
their children do better in school.
I think you have to build dumb homes and put smart stuff in it.
You must admit that gives you,
who are trying to expose stories like this
So when men share housework and childcare,
their children are happier and healthier,
It s kind of agonizing,
And they said,  Well, it s because God gave women a gift
Their wives are less likely to see a therapist,
less likely to be diagnosed with depression,
They ve made it conversational.
So when men share housework and childcare,
That is why spreading the concept of the constitutional state
for family size to stabilize in this country.
They are less likely to go to the ER
but more like to go to a doctor for routine screenings.
They are less likely to see a therapist,
less likely to be diagnosed with depression,
That is why we train police officers, we train judges,
So when men share housework and childcare,
what are the things that you can do in your neighborhood
And finally,
Now, of these four fascinating findings,
Anchor: For anyone who suffers from migraine headaches --
(Laughter)
for billionaires, large capital endowments.
(Not When She Does It.) 
(Laughter)
The second big enabler is intellectual property.
I ve now learned that this is standard practice, but it had me worried at the time.
so I don t want listeners to say,
These data were collected over a really long period of time.
But I think it shows something important,
that gender equality
I know it s not true.
It s not a win-lose.
It is a win-win for everyone.
because we had so few blogs on the service,
is we cannot fully empower women and girls
unless we engage boys and men.
We know this.
I would love to invest in a
which is, of course, the universe itself.
in order to live the lives that we say we want to live.
but you can take them to be describing
down Fifth Avenue in New York City,
a writer in New York wrote an article in a magazine,
and the title of the article was,
 Feminism for Men. 
Thank you.
I have a confession to make.
I set up a climate change NGO
have been trying to figure out how to reduce poverty
The protesters who occupied Maidan,
People have created and invested millions of dollars
in a hyperconnected, data-driven global economy,
with the mission of helping people who are poor.
and the will to learn can access these great courses
that study issues like education, job creation and asset-building,
and then advocated for policies to support our most marginalized communities.
throughout of the summer through revelations and leaks
So he came up with an idea:
entrenched at the bottom end of the income scale.
And that effort has helped.
But it s not enough.
Our poverty rates haven t changed that much in the last 50 years,
since the War on Poverty was launched.
I m here to tell you
Here it is:
Up in the left-hand corner is Jobana, Sintia and Bertha.
They met when they all had small children,
it s not reaching the people who need it most.
in San Francisco.
As they grew together as parents and friends,
they talked a lot about how hard it was
to make money when your kids are little.
Child care is expensive,
more than they d earn in a job.
This was the first time the word scientist
but they wanted to contribute financially, too.
So they hatched a plan.
They started a cleaning business.
Earlier this year, in March, Clay took his own life.
and handed business cards out to their families and friends,
and soon, they had clients calling.
Two of them would clean the office or house
and went into action.
They d rotate who d cleaned and who d watch the kids.
(Laughs) It s awesome, right?
Even worse, with our intention of trying to make buildings
And they split the money three ways.
It was not a full-time gig,
no one could watch the little ones all day.
But it made a difference for their families.
Extra money to pay for bills when a husband s work hours were cut.
Money to buy the kids clothes as they were growing.
16 species. From these 16, 11 of them are facing
is now suddenly within not too many minutes
Up in the top-right corner is Theresa and her daughter, Brianna.
Brianna is one of those kids
For example, when Rosie,
a little girl who spoke only Spanish, moved in next door,
to help the organization achieve
borrowed her mother s tablet and found a translation app
so the two of them could communicate.
(Laughter)
When I drive to work, I listen to thuggish rap at a very loud volume.
Rosie s family credits Brianna with helping Rosie to learn English.
A few years ago,
Brianna started to struggle academically.
in terms of children and social status
and acting out in class.
And her mother was heartbroken over what was happening.
Then they found out that she was going to have to repeat second grade
and they re a little bit disappointed today.
Her mother felt hopeless and overwhelmed and alone
more than they re trusting governments and leaders.
You have Google, we have Baidu.
One afternoon, Theresa was catching up with a group of friends,
and one of them said,
 Theresa, how are you? 
And she burst into tears.
After she shared her story, one of her friends said,
that could be even worse,
83 percent admitted to changing some aspects of themselves
Theresa realized that so much of her struggle
was not having anybody to talk with about it.
So she created a support group for parents like her.
The first meeting was her and two other people.
But word spread, and soon 20 people, 30 people
were showing up for these monthly meetings that she put together.
Do we find a flourishing civil society, a vigorous rule of law
So I set it up in my home two years ago,
with the support of other people who were going through the same struggle.
And Brianna is doing fantastic -- she s doing great academically
and socially.
That in the middle is my man Baakir,
(British accent) And it s like,
which he runs out of part of his house.
As you walk in the door,
rather than clear-cutting a whole area.
(Laughter)
a country with such a tarnished civil rights record,
perhaps a vegan walnut burger,
or jive turkey sammich.
And that s sammich -- not sandwich.
You must finish your meal with a buttermilk drop,
which is several steps above a donut hole
innovation has always been fueled by tinkerers.
For real, it s very secret, he won t tell you about it.
But BlackStar is much more than a café.
For the kids in the neighborhood,
and the administrator walks by and says,
For the grown-ups, it s where they go
to find out what s going on in the neighborhood
and catch up with friends.
Here s our rendering of how we would actually
Baakir and his partner Nicole,
with their baby girl strapped to her back,
are there in the mix of it all,
serving up a cup of coffee,
Iran had put itself in isolation
And we looked at setting up a network in Lesotho
I have worked with and learned from people just like them
for more than 20 years.
I have organized against the prison system,
At first they did what infants do,
especially black, indigenous and Latino folks,
In other words, we have to understand bees up close.
I have worked with young people who manifest hope and promise,
despite being at the effect of racist discipline practices in their schools,
and police violence in their communities.
I have learned from families
Well, we know that these juveniles
to collectively create their own solutions.
And they re not just focused on money.
They re addressing education, housing, health, community --
the things that we all care about.
and most of the content went straight over my head.
I see people who are broke but not broken.
I see people who are struggling to realize their good ideas,
so that they can create a better life for themselves,
their families, their communities.
with any life-changing experience,
Probably we can answer this question
the best leaders we ve seen in the last 50 years.
It should be noted that we use sand as our soil,
that you re wearing a prosthetic limb,
that many of my classmates and their parents considered dangerous.
At eight, I was a latchkey kid.
I d get myself home after school every day and do homework and chores,
and wait for my mother to come home.
After school, I d go to the corner store
CA: All right. So this is only one string to your energy bow.
which I d heat up on the stove as my afternoon snack.
If I had a little extra money, I d buy a Hostess Fruit Pie.
(Laughter)
Cherry.
Not as good as a buttermilk drop.
(Laughter)
compared to private venture capital,
But now, I own a home in a quickly gentrifying neighborhood
For example, our National Endowment for the Arts,
I ve built a career.
My husband is a business owner.
I have a retirement account.
and talk to each other.
As soon as I came to that realization, a quick question came to my mind.
collaborated constantly with the Stasi,
They were also criteria of exhibition and of preservation.
that I had to at her age.
My kids  raviolis are organic
and full of things like spinach and ricotta,
because I have the luxury of choice
when it comes to what my children eat.
I am the exception,
not because I m more talented than Baakir
or my mother worked any harder than Jobana, Sintia or Bertha,
or cared any more than Theresa.
quadcopters can be loaded with firearms
hustling and working and innovating,
just like our most revered and most rewarded CEOs.
They are full of people tapping into their resilience
to get up every day, get the kids off to school
and go to jobs that don t pay enough,
or get educations that are putting them in debt.
They are full of people applying their savvy intelligence
to stretch a minimum wage paycheck,
or balance a job and a side hustle to make ends meet.
They are full of people doing for themselves and for others,
The questions we ask, the choices we make,
or letting a sibling borrow some money to pay the phone bill,
will change the economics of deforestation.
I am the exception because of luck and privilege,
not hard work.
But what I want to emphasize is that exactly the same mechanism
I am amazing.
(Laughter)
But most people work hard.
Hard work is the common denominator in this equation,
and I m tired of the story we tell
that hard work leads to success,
because that allows --
Thank you.
Turns out sometimes,
... because that story allows those of us who make it to believe we deserve it,
and by implication,
those who don t make it don t deserve it.
We tell ourselves, in the back of our minds,
and sometimes in the front of our mouths,
 There must be something a little wrong with those poor people. 
We have a wide range of beliefs
about what that something wrong is.
What is the hatred that s causing people to do these kinds of things? 
who would cheat and lie to get out of an honest day s work.
Others prefer the story that poor people are helpless
and probably had neglectful parents that didn t read to them enough,
and if they were just told what to do
and shown the right path,
they could make it.
what happens if they don t --
which is how people might think of my parents,
I ve got 50 that tell a different story about the same people,
showing up every day and doing their best.
I m not saying that some of the negative stories aren t true,
of biodiversity unknown prior to this work.
because they don t paint a full picture.
The quarter-truths and limited plot lines have us convinced
It makes so much sense,
What if we recognized that what s working is the people
and what s broken is our approach?
What if we realized that the experts we are looking for,
you don t care and you don t know.
are poor people themselves?
What if, instead of imposing solutions,
we just added fire
to the already-burning flame that they have?
Not directing --
They spend more time with their kids
but just fueling their initiative.
we have an example of what this could look like:
than it takes for that brainstorm to leave its head, the head of the monkey,
A whole venture capital industry has grown up around the belief
that if people have good ideas and the desire to manifest them,
we should give them lots and lots and lots of money.
10 to 15 percent.
Right? But where is our strategy for Theresa and Baakir?
There are no incubators for them,
and as they handed them to me, they said,
from the Mark Zuckerbergs of the world?
Baakir has experience and a track record.
and without me being involved.
So, consider this an invitation to rethink a flawed strategy.
Let s grasp this opportunity
to let go of a tired, faulty narrative
and listen and look for true stories,
more beautifully complex stories,
for citizen engagement and hopefully
I m going to take a minute to speak to my people.
We cannot wait
for somebody else to get it right.
Let us remember what we are capable of;
all the cogs that keep turning;
and the people kept afloat because of our backbreaking work.
Let us remember that we are magic.
If you need some inspiration to jog your memory,
read Octavia Butler s  Parable of the Sower. 
Listen to Reverend King s  Letter from Birmingham Jail. 
Listen to Suheir Hammad recite  First Writing Since, 
or Esperanza Spalding perform  Black Gold. 
Set your gaze upon the art of Kehinde Wiley
or Favianna Rodriguez.
Look at the hands of your grandmother
or into the eyes of someone who loves you.
We are magic.
Individually, we don t have a lot of wealth and power,
but collectively, we are unstoppable.
And we spend a lot of our time and energy
organizing our power to demand change from systems that were not made for us.
where the university that licenses it with the professor
let s weave and cut some fierce new cloth.
Let s use some of our substantial collective power
toward inventing and bringing to life
new ways of being that work for us.
Let s not do that.
in the context of South Africa s Truth and Reconciliation process
that they embarked on after apartheid.
He says it means,
 My humanity is caught up, is inextricably bound up, in yours;
we belong to a bundle of life. 
A bundle of life.
The Truth and Reconciliation process
started by elevating the voices of the unheard.
If this country is going to live up to its promise of liberty and justice for all,
then we need to elevate the voices of our unheard,
of people like Jobana, Sintia and Bertha,
Theresa and Baakir.
We must leverage their solutions and their ideas.
We must listen to their true stories,
but more importantly, it takes the war to their homelands,
Thank you.
(Applause)
Have you ever experienced a moment in your life
I would like you to feel comfortable with my doing that
We are inveterate storytellers.
people saying nothing s happening at all,
But I also grew up in a time where there was something to fear.
We were brought out in the hall when I was a little kid
and taught how to put our coats over our heads
to protect us from global thermonuclear war.
But I also knew
by going through case by case
We created the space program in response to that.
We built our highway system in response to that.
On September 11, 2001,
the illegal exploitation and trafficking of natural resources --
where there was a mixture.
It was a huge success.
They posed an existential threat
shape our social landscape.
there s an awful lot to pass on,
once spiked this argument.
 No, this is very important here. You know,
And therefore, for the first time in history,
setting aside what our interests were.
I would argue that 15 years later,
Now you have to ask, where did we go wrong?
why is there a sticker on this? 
Secondly, the successful groups gave roughly equal time to each other,
But there are bigger problems, believe it or not, than that dysfunction,
and has a higher surface gravity.
And the other problems
In Washington, in think tanks,
but our prime customers simply weren t buying.
What we decided to do
The link I clicked on here,
200 or 300 light bulbs per person,
 No, I m leaving today. 
You also have processes that become reactive to news cycles.
And so we re not looking ahead.
Today we have a crisis because, because of 9/11,
to just ask around and see how difficult it would be
And so what are those trends?
Institutionally, new rules get enacted
eBay for errands existed.
If you saw the cover of The Economist a couple of days ago --
They would have a small computer connected to the Internet in their pocket.
Students can traverse this material in different ways,
We passed the point last October
We are within years of a profound moment in our history,
to make their ideas a reality.
And Heather realizes
They re asked,  Are you running out of food at the end of the month?
On the security side,
I m not sure exactly how much.
Nobody went after that person.
We don t have the basic ideas formulated.
We don t know.
Or should they both change their practices
It s a gesture -- it s not a deterrent.
Special forces operators out there in the field today
I m saying this because one of my major points
A thousand years ago,
one of whom speaks Hausa and one of whom speaks Igbo.
And the weapon was the iPad.
Because he captured people, he terrorized them,
and then its realization.
But it doesn t just affect the security side.
They could go for dozens of kilometers safely
We thought we were in a unipolar world,
But we re not.
In countries like China, you have the Great Firewall of China.
It s China, India, Russia.
We are seeing these changes everywhere we look.
We are seeing the advent of mobile money.
There are 2.5 million people who don t have financial service access
A billion of them are going to have the ability to access it
It s going to change what monetary policy is.
Education is changing in the same way.
Healthcare is changing in the same way.
And yet, in Washington, we are debating
We are trying to determine
all of his peers in that era,
was the most recently organized region in the world,
that will accommodate very, very different motivations,
But it was the canals and railroads and telegraph;
But what you had was a partnership and a dialogue,
(Applause)
But we have a government that doesn t want to listen,
challenge us, and remind us to demand
And I have nothing to hide.
I know, because when I wrote this book,
Meanwhile, on the tech side,
to get women to the top.
But the world s coming apart.
All of a sudden, there are going to be massive regulatory changes
and a president of the United States who is African-American,
which are philosophical issues.
If you can t vote, if you can t have a job,
These are fundamental issues. Where are the philosophers?
And that brings me to the reason that I m here.
I m sure everyone in this room is very innovative.
gets contagious,
You re not astonished at the existence of the universe
It cannot be exported. But that is the point precisely.
The risks associated with 9/11 will not be measured
It s part of the spacecraft that s in orbit around the Sun
and start coming up with, if not the right answers,
Intent -- a life with intent --
Billie Jean King: Hi, everyone!
(Applause)
And one of the most remarkable was the tanagra theater, which was popular in the
Thank you!
(Laughter)
a New York Times crossword puzzle constructor,
You know, when I was watching the video again of the match,
you must have felt like the fate of the world s women
was on every stroke you took.
Were you feeling that?
a social media shaming.
We work together to fill those spaces,
when the trial ended
And that s the reason I beat him, actually, because I respected him.
as the robot.
And he was correct. He was absolutely correct.
For the first time in my life,
And I was really nervous whenever we announced it,
and I felt like the whole world was on my shoulders.
and my father built a psychiatric hospital
Title IX had just been passed the year before -- June 23, 1972.
And women s professional tennis --
there were nine of us who signed a one-dollar contract in 1970 --
now remember, the match is in  73.
So we were only in our third year of having a tour
where we could actually play, have a place to compete and make a living.
So there were nine of us that signed that one-dollar contract.
And our dream was for any girl, born any place in the world --
if she was good enough --
there would be a place for her to compete and for us to make a living.
Because before 1968, we made 14 dollars a day,
And I suppose that s how I found myself
So we really wanted to break away from that.
But we knew it wasn t really about our generation so much;
we knew it was about the future generations.
We do stand on the shoulders of the people that came before us, there is no question.
from the universal values, but also to prevent
That was really on my mind.
I really wanted to start matching the hearts and minds to Title IX.
Title IX, in case anybody doesn t know, which a lot of people probably don t,
either public or private,
(Applause)
And so our brains encode the everyday things we do into habits
but it s changing the hearts and minds to match up with it.
That s when it really rocks, totally.
So that was on my mind.
I wanted to start that change in the hearts and minds.
But two things came out of that match.
For women: self-confidence, empowerment.
They actually had enough nerve to ask for a raise.
Well, to my dear 76.31 percent --
I said,  More importantly, did you get it? 
(Laughter)
And for the men?
So I want to encourage everyone today
but if you re in your 50s, 60s or whatever, late 40s,
you re the first generation of men of the Women s Movement --
whether you like it or not!
We would love to think that your brain could tell
And for the men,
what happened for the men, they d come up to me --
and most times, the men are the ones who have tears in their eyes,
it s very interesting.
Timing accounted for 42 percent
and now I have a daughter.
And I am so happy I saw that as a young man. 
When a kid behaves like I did,
And he actually told me that when I met him, he said:
And he says,  Well I used to be a banker
And now I have two daughters,
and it has made a difference in how I raise them. 
So both men and women got a lot out of it, but different things.
PM: And now there are generations -- at least one or two --
who have experienced the equality
that Title IX and other fights along the way made possible.
And for women, there are generations who have also experienced teamwork.
They got to play team sports in a way they hadn t before.
So you had a legacy already built in terms of being an athlete,
a legacy of the work you did to lobby for equal pay for women athletes
So there was that big flash,
What now are you looking to accomplish
with The Billie Jean King Leadership Initiative?
At 11, I wanted to be the number one tennis player in the world,
and a friend had asked me to play and I said,  What s that? 
and they d take a look at the world around them.
Men fight most wars and women mourn them.
(Laughter)
and think that things aren t so bad for you,
where you get a ranking at the end of the year.
because I m the best person for the job.
and I started thinking about my sport and how tiny it was,
have an evolving effect on technologies we use
played with white balls -- everybody who played was white.
in the mid- to late 1990s,
And that moment,
I promised myself I d fight for equal rights and opportunities
for boys and girls, men and women, the rest of my life.
And that tennis, if I was fortunate enough to become number one --
and I knew, being a girl, it would be harder to have influence,
already at that age --
that I had this platform.
And tennis is global.
And I thought,  You know what?
I ve been given an opportunity that very few people have had. 
I didn t know if I was going to make it -- this was only 12.
so I simply stopped eating as much.
I just remember I promised myself, and I really try to keep my word.
I was able to react to the moment
And we are considered less.
And so my attentions, where did they have to go?
It was just ... you have to.
And learn to stick up for yourself, hear your own voice.
bigger than that thing that was in Madagascar,
and I got really lucky because I had an education.
And I think if you can see it you can be it, you know?
If you can see it, you can be it.
You look at Pat, you look at other leaders,
you look at these speakers, look at yourself,
because everyone --
if my knee gives, they ll just have more work to do in the morning.
can do something extraordinary.
And that means that eventually, they can understand all of them.
to show muscle resistance.
Now with the Billie Jean King Leadership Initiative,
you re taking on an even bigger cause.
Because one thing we hear a lot about is women taking their voice,
working to find their way into leadership positions.
But what you re talking about is even bigger than that.
is a source of pattern identification
And this is a generation that has grown up thinking more inclusively --
BJK: Isn t it great? Look at the technology!
It s amazing how it connects us all! It s about connection.
It s simply amazing what s possible because of it.
But the Billie Jean King Leadership Initiative
is really about the workforce mostly, and trying to change it,
the whole street, into a giant patchwork of color.
Because most of us have two jobs:
One, to fit in -- I ll give you a perfect example.
An African American woman gets up an hour earlier to go to work,
using his own plans.
goes to the bathroom probably four, five, six times a day
to keep straightening her hair, to keep making sure she fits in.
She s got this other job, whatever that may be,
but she s also trying to fit in.
(Laughter)
and actually found --
The infrastructure group of Google is the group
just would not mention it.
So he made sure they saw he was well-educated.
And then you see a gay guy who has an NFL --
which means American football for all of you out there,
it s a big deal, it s very macho --
Those are their expectations of who you are, not yours.
because he was gay and he didn t want anybody to know.
So my wish for everyone is to be able to be their authentic self 24/7,
that would be the ultimate.
And we catch ourselves -- I mean, I catch myself to this day.
Even being gay I catch myself, you know, like,
(Gasp)
feeling not totally comfortable in my own skin.
So, I think you have to ask yourself --
I want people to be themselves, whatever that is, just let it be.
PM: And the first research the Leadership Initiative did showed that,
that these examples you just used --
that many of us have the problem of being authentic.
Ease makes less of an impression on us
who have benefited from all these equal opportunities --
which may not be equal but exist everywhere --
earthquake and tsunami,
Partnership with Teneo, a strategic company that s amazing.
That s really the reason I m able to do this.
I ve had two times in my life
where I ve actually had men really behind me with power.
And that was in the old days with Philip Morris with Virginia Slims,
and this is the second time in my entire life.
And then Deloitte.
The one thing I wanted was data -- facts.
Sometimes we need excuses to do nothing.
and over 4,000 people now have answered,
and we re continuing in the workplace.
And what do the millennials feel?
Well, they feel a lot, but what they re so fantastic about is --
you know, our generation was like,  Oh, we re going to get representation. 
So if you walk into a room, you see everybody represented.
That s not good enough anymore, which is so good!
So the millennials are fantastic; they want connection, engagement.
and with this hole-punch machine they fuse it together.
You can take some cards and shuffle.
and greens are yet another.
and of course, you ve got the information at your fingertips,
compared to when I was growing up.
PM: What did the research show you about millennials?
Are they going to make a difference?
that s pediatric endocrinology.
My wife and I actually moved where we sit for difficult conversations
is going to be millennials.
I think they are going to help solve problems.
I think they have the wherewithal to do it.
I know they care a lot.
Now, what s the right response to that?
I want to stay in the now with the young people,
I don t want to get behind.
(Music ends)
PM: I don t think there s any chance!
But what you found out in the research about millennials
is not really the experience that a lot of people have with millennials.
BJK: No, well, if we want to talk -- OK, I ve been doing my little mini-survey.
I ve been talking to the Boomers, who are their bosses, and I go,
 What do you think about the millennials? 
 Oh, you mean the  Me  generation? 
BG: Great. Good news. (Applause)
I say,  Do you really think so?
Because I do think they care about the environment
of someone who s susceptible
And they go,  Oh, Billie, they cannot focus. 
it might be a critique of the killing instrument.
They actually have proven
(Laughter)
They can t focus.
And they don t really care.
it s not hard to imagine how you might use this technology to spy on someone.
a woman owns a gallery and she has these workers.
She gets a text from one of the workers,
They observed one another, from the youth, from the middle aged to the old.
 Oh, by the way, I m going to be late because I m at the hairdresser s. 
(Laughter)
So she arrives, and this boss says,
 What s going on? 
And she says,  Oh, I was late, sorry, how s it going? 
in an area of the brain, a regional power failure.
She goes,  OK. 
(Laughter)
No problem!
PM: Now Billie, that story --
I know, but that s what scares the boomers --
I m just telling you -- so I think it s good for us to share.
(Laughter)
No, it is good for us to share,
because we re our authentic selves and what we re really feeling,
But I have great faith because --
if you ve been in sports like I have --
every generation gets better.
It s a fact.
With the Women s Sports Foundation being the advocates for Title IX still,
because we re trying to keep protecting the law,
so we really are concerned,
And we ve got to do better. The evaluation, we have to start with kids earlier,
That s very important to us.
And I want to hear from people.
But we really have to protect what Title IX stands for worldwide.
in the U.S. and the collective West.
And do you know that every single lawsuit
that girls, at least in sports, have gone up against --
has won?
Title IX is there to protect us.
And it is amazing.
But we still have to get the hearts and minds --
the hearts and minds to match the legislation is huge.
PM: So what gets you up every morning?
What keeps you sustaining your work,
sustaining the fight for equality, extending it,
always exploring new areas, trying to find new ways ... ?
BJK: Well, I always drove my parents crazy because I was always the curious one.
of the Cablegate cables, which is a tool for detecting
My younger brother was a Major League Baseball player.
My poor parents did not care if we were any good.
(Laughter)
And we drove them crazy because we pushed,
And, at the end, although it may rise,
And I think it s because of what I m hearing today in TED talks.
I think to listen to these different women,
to listen to different people,
to listen to President Carter -- 90 years old, by the way,
and he we was throwing these figures out that I would never --
I d have to go,
 Excuse me, wait a minute, I need to get a list out of these figures. 
and look for the pass first and not shoot all the time.
(Applause)
BJK: And then you re going to have President Mary Robinson,
who s a former president --
Thank you, Irish! 62 percent! LGBTQ! Yes!
What happens when the music stops?
so these are things that for some people are very hard to hear.
But always remember, every one of us is an individual,
a human being with a beating heart,
As valuable as that is in Los Altos,
OK? You don t have to agree with somebody,
but everyone has the opportunity.
I think we all have an obligation
to continue to keep moving the needle forward, always.
And these people have been so inspiring.
Everyone matters.
And every one of you is an influencer.
You out there listening, out there in the world, plus the people here --
every single person s an influencer.
Never, ever forget that. OK?
So don t ever give up on yourself.
PM: Billie, you have been an inspiration for us.
BJK: Thanks, Pat!
If that seems like some strange, abstruse thing,
And then the big political and economic question
(Applause)
Thanks a lot!
Well, we all need a reason to wake up.
For me, it just took 11,000 volts.
I know you re too polite to ask,
so I will tell you.
This isn t likely how you think about the FBI.
just back from Thanksgiving holiday,
But I look at that statistic
They were not the only ones.
It was just sitting there, with the wires that run overhead.
We d certainly done stupider things.
and he put them together in a superflock,
blew down and out my feet, and that was that.
No, they are full of misery.
and appreciate the quality of the light.
That night began my formal relationship with death -- my death --
and it also began my long run as a patient.
It s a good word.
It means one who suffers.
So I guess we re all patients.
Now, the American health care system
has more than its fair share of dysfunction --
to match its brilliance, to be sure.
I m a physician now, a hospice and palliative medicine doc,
so I ve seen care from both sides.
how it would recover from its severe crisis.
home to some of our most famous rivers,
I d say I m an American and I m a citizen,
for a system that too often does not serve.
which was basically the result of bloggers
The site is located in the Faiyum of Egypt,
My simple idea is that what s happened is,
because healthcare was designed with diseases, not people, at its center.
Which is to say, of course, it was badly designed.
And nowhere are the effects of bad design more heartbreaking
or the opportunity for good design more compelling
than at the end of life,
You ve all seen that. That s a solar eclipse.
There are no do-overs.
My purpose today is to reach out across disciplines
I mean, the only real product of our life,
That is, to bring intention and creativity
to the experience of dying.
I m going to talk about how to go from a society
before one of the few universal issues
doing dinosaur paleontology as an undergraduate,
to rethink and redesign how it is we die.
So let s begin at the end.
We pioneered all sorts of new, flexible work methods:
like you saw in the previous movies.
It s a key distinction.
To get underneath this, it can be very helpful
to tease out suffering which is necessary as it is,
from suffering we can change.
The former is a natural, essential part of life, part of the deal,
and to this we are called to make space, adjust, grow.
who possess untold amounts of untapped potential.
they could move the robot around
maybe 15 years is, maybe these microbes,
After my limbs were gone,
that loss, for example, became fact, fixed --
Ronnie: Not at four o clock in the morning.
and I learned that I could no more reject this fact than reject myself.
It took me a while, but I learned it eventually.
And they use these burst-pulsed sounds as well as
that unites caregiver and care receiver --
This, we are finally realizing, is where healing happens.
So, you ll see there s a problem here, something that is illogical.
suffering together.
splashed in the face with cold water.
so much of the suffering is unnecessary, invented.
It serves no good purpose.
But the good news is, since this brand of suffering is made up,
well, we can change it.
have not put national security and people at risk,
Making the system sensitive to this fundamental distinction
as making chocolate chip cookies, which I love.
And never has infidelity exacted such a psychological toll.
After all, our role as caregivers, as people who care,
is to relieve suffering -- not add to the pile.
True to the tenets of palliative care,
I function as something of a reflective advocate,
So we were not only thinking about development,
Quick aside: palliative care -- a very important field but poorly understood --
while it includes, it is not limited to end of life care.
It s simply about comfort and living well at any stage.
to benefit from palliative care.
Now, let me introduce you to Frank.
Sort of makes this point.
I ve been seeing Frank now for years.
He s living with advancing prostate cancer on top of long-standing HIV.
We work on his bone pain and his fatigue,
but most of the time we spend thinking out loud together about his life --
than answers in the laws of physics,
They raised more money more quickly for these causes
In this way, he keeps up with his losses as they roll in,
so that he s ready to take in the next moment.
Loss is one thing, but regret, quite another.
If an artwork is to touch someone,
 recombobulation area, 
and no fan of regret.
saying he wanted to raft down the Colorado River.
Was this a good idea?
With all the risks to his safety and his health, some would say no.
Many did, but he went for it, while he still could.
So we need to think about those kinds of challenges.
Oftentimes, they know more about our own systems
wildlife howling off the flaming walls of the Grand Canyon --
all the glorious side of the world beyond our control.
Frank s decision, while maybe dramatic,
is exactly the kind so many of us would make,
if we only had the support to figure out what is best for ourselves over time.
you re going to keep doing what s familiar and comfortable.
After my accident, when I went back to college,
I changed my major to art history.
Studying visual art, I figured I d learn something about how to see --
a really potent lesson for a kid who couldn t change
so much of what he was seeing.
Perspective, that kind of alchemy we humans get to play with,
but getting to a world where women and men are equal
called the Zen Hospice Project,
I remember my grandfather revising
When one of our residents dies,
the mortuary men come, and as we re wheeling the body out through the garden,
heading for the gate, we pause.
Anyone who wants --
fellow residents, family, nurses, volunteers,
the hearse drivers too, now --
shares a story or a song or silence,
My brain s making amyloid-beta right now,
It takes a few minutes;
On the contrary, imagine actually that you start
rather than repugnance.
Contrast that with the typical experience in the hospital setting,
much like this -- floodlit room lined with tubes and beeping machines
and blinking lights that don t stop even when the patient s life has.
Cleaning crew swoops in, the body s whisked away,
and it all feels as though that person had never really existed.
that we now have
but hospitals tend to assault our senses,
and the most we might hope for within those walls is numbness --
anesthetic, literally the opposite of aesthetic.
I revere hospitals for what they can do; I am alive because of them.
But we ask too much of our hospitals.
I entered the sphere a week before the scheduled air date.
They are no place to live and die; that s not what they were designed for.
Now mind you -- I am not giving up on the notion
that our institutions can become more humane.
Beauty can be found anywhere.
I spent a few months in a burn unit
at St. Barnabas Hospital in Livingston, New Jersey,
where I got really great care at every turn,
including good palliative care for my pain.
And one night, it began to snow outside.
I remember my nurses complaining about driving through it.
And there was no window in my room,
but it was great to just imagine it coming down all sticky.
Next day, one of my nurses smuggled in a snowball for me.
She brought it in to the unit.
I cannot tell you the rapture I felt holding that in my hand,
and the coldness dripping onto my burning skin;
the miracle of it all,
the fascination as I watched it melt and turn into water.
In that moment,
just being any part of this planet in this universe mattered more to me
My journey is a unique journey,
That little snowball packed all the inspiration I needed
to both try to live and be OK if I did not.
In a hospital, that s a stolen moment.
In my work over the years, I ve known many people
Not because they had found some final peace or transcendence,
but because they were so repulsed by what their lives had become --
and make sure you re releasing such that you get
and as you go from being normal
and into ever older age.
And we are nowhere near ready or prepared for this silver tsunami.
We need an infrastructure dynamic enough to handle
these seismic shifts in our population.
Now is the time to create something new, something vital.
I know we can because we have to.
The alternative is just unacceptable.
And the key ingredients are known:
policy, education and training,
systems, bricks and mortar.
We have tons of input for designers of all stripes to work with.
We know, for example, from research
what s most important to people who are closer to death:
comfort; feeling unburdened and unburdening to those they love;
Even the milk hasn t escaped the kind of modern-day problems.
Over Zen Hospice s nearly 30 years,
we ve learned much more from our residents in subtle detail.
Little things aren t so little.
Take Janette.
She finds it harder to breathe one day to the next due to ALS.
nearly 170 years
She wants to start smoking again --
for there to be equal rights in the United States.
Not out of some self-destructive bent,
but to feel her lungs filled while she has them.
Priorities change.
Or Kate -- she just wants to know
her dog Austin is lying at the foot of her bed,
his cold muzzle against her dry skin,
and the president of the United States
she s done that.
We netted for breast cancer alone, that year alone,
So much of it comes down to loving our time by way of the senses,
by way of the body -- the very thing doing the living and the dying.
Probably the most poignant room
in the Zen Hospice guest house is our kitchen,
which is a little strange when you realize
that so many of our residents can eat very little, if anything at all.
But we realize we are providing sustenance on several levels:
smell, a symbolic plane.
Seriously, with all the heavy-duty stuff happening under our roof,
one of the most tried and true interventions we know of,
is to bake cookies.
As long as we have our senses --
even just one --
Now we need everybody,
your Blackberry, but to create a zone
Imagine the ripples of this notion
for the millions of people living and dying with dementia.
Primal sensorial delights that say the things we don t have words for,
impulses that make us stay present --
no need for a past or a future.
So, if teasing unnecessary suffering out of the system was our first design cue,
then tending to dignity by way of the senses,
by way of the body -- the aesthetic realm --
is design cue number two.
I re-scored him --
namely, we need to lift our sights, to set our sights on well-being,
BG: Do you have an answer in the book?
can become about making life more wonderful,
rather than just less horrible.
Elephant skull from Oxford University, 1988.
Here, this gets right at the distinction
between a disease-centered and a patient- or human-centered model of care,
and here is where caring becomes a creative, generative,
The third thing I want you to remember
 Play  may sound like a funny word here.
But it is also one of our highest forms of adaptation.
Consider every major compulsory effort it takes to be human.
The need for food has birthed cuisine.
The need for shelter has given rise to architecture.
The need for cover, fashion.
And for being subjected to the clock,
well, we invented music.
But on the front step, a person who was sitting there
They never passed on any of the wealth,
By  play  I am in no way suggesting we take a light approach to dying
or that we mandate any particular way of dying.
There are mountains of sorrow that cannot move,
and one way or another, we will all kneel there.
of each of our parts?
physical, psychic room, to allow life to play itself all the way out --
so that rather than just getting out of the way,
aging and dying can become a process of crescendo through to the end.
We can t solve for death.
I know some of you are working on this.
(Laughter)
I was educated by television.
(Laughter)
We can design towards it.
Parts of me died early on,
and that s something we can all say one way or another.
I got to redesign my life around this fact,
and I tell you it has been a liberation
to realize you can always find a shock of beauty or meaning
in what life you have left,
like that snowball lasting for a perfect moment,
all the while melting away.
and John said,
then maybe we can learn to live well --
not in spite of death,
but because of it.
Let death be what takes us,
not lack of imagination.
Thank you.
(Applause)
instead of living our lives
And I love to use film to take us on a journey
and spreading over wider geographic areas than we had ever seen,
You may be asking yourselves that very question.
Now, I know of course, we have to make a living,
psychiatric disorders like autism, depression and schizophrenia
For folks in this room, the work we do is challenging,
And this is the ability to program physical and biological materials
And if we re lucky, it might even be important.
a local diner in town,
And I said, I ve got PowerPoint. Let s do a Venn diagram.
I tell you this to show
in eight months, and the night before the crash,
why is it that for the overwhelming majority of people on the planet,
that get us up and out of bed and off to the office every morning?
where commemorating someone who s died
And thus,  Malicious Dishes  was born.
More specifically, we created this website,
Six years later, I returned to the country.
and when I m grown, I won t have a stutter,
So for example, states compete very vigorously
and that all learning from then on would happen through teaching,
but bubbling in a Scantron does not stop
that s not what I mean.
Indeed, it s rather small.
I call it,  idea technology  --
fail to leave these kinds of fears behind as adults.
In addition to creating things, science creates ideas.
with the wind on their sails,
But the most important thing about Romo
encourages the tyranny of the nasty.
only animals.
If you think your poverty is the result of your own inadequacy,
(Laughter)
that you cannot simply be curious,
that you can use for cooking -- an induction machine.
who move to some other state,
we re not competing with them,
the maize, the soy, the wheat, that humans could eat
of the Industrial Revolution, Adam Smith --
was by incentivizing, by giving them rewards.
So I traveled to Boston, to Cambridge,
for a change.
maybe right about now. 
And this is not the audience to which I m going to preach
or, worse, as problem cases.
every time you wash your clothes.
being a banker better than being an artist.
black and white, subtitled,
it s a structural element.
no matter what theories we have about the cosmos.
The distinguished anthropologist, Clifford Geertz, said, years ago,
But that s a different talk,
palling around and making back-room deals
as you go back home to run your organizations.
and a standard sheet material like plywood.
You d measure how many --
in the sense that they only exist as experienced
Thanks.
and light is also the expression of structure. 
or we saw it by driving in the hour over to the Cape.
but I was most impressed by the engineering that went into it.
Behind me you see an amazing view,
and, yes,
in countries and cities ripped apart by conflict,
or just lying in wait.
until you reach the beginning of the stratosphere,
and then an amazing thing happens.
about zero degrees,
that s the same as a 737 falling out of the sky every working day.
and that s the top of the stratosphere.
It is one of the least accessible places on our planet.
Most often, when it s visited,
needed to redesign their factories,
Here s why.
But the question I asked is, is it possible to linger in the stratosphere?
into products that we use everyday and relate beautifully and naturally with.
Why do I feel like I ve got to pretend that I m more than I really am? 
from Paragon Space Development Corporation,
We re funded by donations from the public,
is it possible to build
And on October 24 of last year,
The arrows indicate peak gray matter volume
and more than that, come down tomorrow
they put them into groups, and they gave them very hard problems to solve.
So in scuba diving,
You have everything that you could ever need.
Three years later, this is what we have.
ILC Dover was the company that made all of the Apollo suits
Up here we have a parachute. This was all about safety.
Everyone on the team knew
and if I do nothing,
the reserve parachute is going to open because of an automatic opening device.
It will actually heat water that will wrap around my body.
Even if I was to get a quarter-inch hole in this suit,
this system would still protect me from the low pressure of space.
The main advantage of this system is weight and complexity.
50 billion dollars in increased aid to Africa,
And to do a capsule, there s an amazing amount of complexity that goes into it,
freezing everything inside of it.
Because I only weighed 500 pounds in this system,
we could do it with a balloon that was five times smaller than that,
We had an amazing team that got up in the middle of the night.
And here s the suit.
Again, this is using the front loader that you ll see in a second,
and I want to play you a video of the actual launch.
but it s a fantastic place to land under a parachute,
But it s also a tragic history.
than we are when we are trying to associate
 What if you just take all that vacant land and you could make it farmland?
Astronauts get this really nice air-conditioned van
My team forbade me from using my right hand.
So the trip up is beautiful. It s kind of like Google Earth in reverse.
I was mostly trying to relax.
and I was trying not to use very much oxygen.
are relatively big at this point,
and you can see me going up and up.
(Applause) —
things that we cannot convey in a lesson plan,
And I guess that is something that Richard Kelly, here on the left,
of burning wood versus charcoal.
And the main thing that I want to do here
He wraps it around my leg,
Five. Four. Three. Two. One.
And there you can see a drogue parachute, which I ll demonstrate in just a second,
822 miles an hour.
(Video) Ground control: We lost the data.
But this is how I get to that object.
And this is, I think, a perfect example
I thought I was the only one happy,
but if you re an older person, that s a switch.
He flew in another airplane, and he actually jumped out
This is my landing, but it s probably more properly called a crash.
I hate to admit it, but this wasn t even close to my worst landing.
So I want to tell you one thing
It takes away any material you don t need
This is some current work I m doing.
When Japan then invaded China in the 1930s
But the problem with one of these things
is right when you release, you re in zero gravity.
In principle, you could imagine to find sand dunes
or you can release this drogue late,
the more likely it is to get cancer or to get metastases.
and this thing is going to destroy itself
 You know, you people have a lot of cold and flu.
and there s no way it will ever tangle with you.
Now, this is not very pleasant and comfortable.
The core of this was about 20 people
But now kids with degrees
and they were incredible.
and it was a chance to work with the best experts
I am instantly an internal storm of contrasting emotions.
I m delivering; they re not taking.
and also covering for me in the times that I was away.
and that s how we ought to be spending our money.
Yay.
(Applause)
and they weren t hearing any of it.
It was super hard on them,
(Applause)
is out of the bottle, but this time it s different.
and she didn t want to take that away from me.
where we arrived 30 years ago on foot,
and we were driving down the road, and she was sitting there,
And so I listened to her idea and I said,  Katelyn, that s impossible. 
And she looks at me
and she goes,  Dad, after what you just did,
how can you call anything impossible? 
These are Nicole and brother Jonas,
it s just very, very hard. 
And then I paused for a second, and I said,  Katelyn,
it may not be impossible, it may not even be very, very hard,
it s just that I don t know how to do it. 
Thank you.
(Applause)
I m actually interested in how the brain learns,
And then the NSA came calling.
What was that about?
Jim Simons: Well the NSA -- that s the National Security Agency --
they didn t exactly come calling.
They had an operation at Princeton, where they hired mathematicians
This persecution has had a long history going back to the late 1800s,
And I knew that existed.
And they had a very good policy,
because you could do half your time at your own mathematics,
and at least half your time working on their stuff.
So I believe that lively, enjoyable public spaces
So that was an irresistible pull.
So, I went there.
CA: You were a code-cracker.
JS: I was.
(Laughter)
JS: Well, I did get fired. Yes.
CA: How come?
I got fired because, well, the Vietnam War was on,
we consume natural resources
about how we would win in Vietnam.
and you allow diverse groups to participate,
And I wrote a letter to the Times, which they published,
saying not everyone who works for Maxwell Taylor,
if anyone remembers that name, agrees with his views.
And I gave my own views ...
CA: Oh, OK. I can see that would --
You can add pop-ups with live links and custom icons,
But in the end, nobody said anything.
Today, we know that women are 70 percent more likely
and said he was a stringer from Newsweek magazine
and he wanted to interview me and ask what I was doing about my views.
and when the war is over, then I ll do mostly their stuff. 
Then I did the only intelligent thing I d done that day --
I told my local boss that I gave that interview.
And he said,  What d you say? 
but we also have a great environment around us?
And then he said,  I ve got to call Taylor. 
of their four children, ages 10 to 15.
and when asked afterward,
CA: OK.
CA: It wasn t bad, because you went on to Stony Brook
and stepped up your mathematical career.
You started working with this man here.
Who is this?
JS: Oh, [Shiing-Shen] Chern.
Chern was one of the great mathematicians of the century.
So how do we know these trees worked?
And I had some ideas,
and I brought them to him and he liked them.
Together, we did this work which you can easily see up there.
There it is.
CA: It led to you publishing a famous paper together.
when they re designing buildings. Here s a case in point.
JS: No.
(Laughter)
JS: I mean, I could explain it to somebody.
(Laughter)
CA: How about explaining this?
JS: But not many. Not many people.
We ve used modern production techniques
three and a half million people have joined up,
JS: Well, it did, but I ll say about that work --
it did have something to do with that, but before we get to that --
that work was good mathematics.
It even started a little sub-field that s now flourishing.
But, more interestingly, it happened to apply to physics,
something we knew nothing about -- at least I knew nothing about physics,
and I don t think Chern knew a heck of a lot.
And about 10 years after the paper came out,
a guy named Ed Witten in Princeton started applying it to string theory
and people in Russia started applying it to what s called  condensed matter. 
Today, those things in there called Chern-Simons invariants
have spread through a lot of physics.
And it was amazing.
We didn t know any physics.
and these insects have infested over 100 countries,
into this picture.
And they would say,  Move! Next! 
that may or may not perceive the truth.
Most gay people are born to straight parents.
discover two decades later that it s being applied
to profoundly describe the actual physical world.
How can that happen?
JS: God knows.
(Laughter)
But there s a famous physicist named [Eugene] Wigner,
in which a single individual
Somehow, this mathematics, which is rooted in the real world
in some sense -- we learn to count, measure, everyone would do that --
and then it flourishes on its own.
But so often it comes back to save the day.
We re ready, because today we have the technology
 Hey! It s the very thing in which I can cast general relativity. 
So, you never know. It is a mystery.
It is a mystery.
CA: So, here s a mathematical piece of ingenuity.
Tell us about this.
JS: Well, that s a ball -- it s a sphere, and it has a lattice around it --
Bill and Melinda Gates and Warren Buffett.
What I m going to show here was originally observed by [Leonhard] Euler,
If that subtly nudges you to feel about them identically,
And it gradually grew to be a very important field in mathematics:
algebraic topology, geometry.
That paper up there had its roots in this.
 Look at you, you re all grown up. Your little sister has a baby.
The problem was solved in less than a day.
And if you look at the difference -- vertices minus edges plus faces --
you get two.
OK, well, two. That s a good number.
of carbon being released into the atmosphere
this has 12 vertices and 30 edges
I ve been called Kevin all my life.
And vertices minus edges plus faces still equals two.
And in fact, you could do this any which way --
cover this thing with all kinds of polygons and triangles
who have cancer ever even sign up for a clinical study,
And you take vertices minus edges plus faces -- you ll get two.
Here s a different shape.
This is a torus, or the surface of a doughnut: 16 vertices
which gives us the information in comparison to something other
It ll always come out to zero.
Every time you cover a torus with squares or triangles
or anything like that, you re going to get zero.
an asset thought to protect against inflation,
and it detoxifies the feeling that something
It s pretty amazing.
No matter how you do it, you re always get the same answer.
So that was the first sort of thrust, from the mid-1700s,
and picked up Ringo on a tour.
into higher-dimensional theory,
higher-dimensional objects, and found new invariances?
It s a really fun way to explore the lecture,
Pontryagin classes -- actually, there were Chern classes.
There were a bunch of these types of invariants.
So for one moment now I m going to take you with me
and model it sort of combinatorially,
instead of the way it was typically done,
because the problems were diagnosed in advanced.
But if it wasn t for Mr. Euler --
who wrote almost 70 volumes of mathematics
and commentaries and all that yucky side stuff.
You have to stand up in the moment to do that.
if it wasn t for Mr. Euler, there wouldn t perhaps be these invariants.
CA: OK, so that s at least given us a flavor of that amazing mind in there.
up to about 500 in her lifetime.
that they needed.
I think you probably didn t buy efficient market theory.
Somehow you found a way of creating astonishing returns over two decades.
The way it s been explained to me,
what s remarkable about what you did wasn t just the size of the returns,
it s that you took them with surprisingly low volatility and risk,
of an underwater wheelchair before,
So how on earth did you do this, Jim?
JS: I did it by assembling a wonderful group of people.
When I started doing trading, I had gotten a little tired of mathematics.
I was in my late 30s, I had a little money.
I started trading and it went very well.
I made quite a lot of money with pure luck.
I mean, I think it was pure luck.
Again, if you have lots and lots of robots,
But in looking at the data, after a while I realized:
it looks like there s some structure here.
And what I found is that most of these situations
just the kind of thing we did back at IDA [Institute for Defense Analyses].
You design an algorithm, you test it out on a computer.
Does it work? Doesn t it work? And so on.
They knew they had to focus on cheap, easy-to-use tools,
Because here s a typical graph of some commodity.
I look at that, and I say,  That s just a random, up-and-down walk --
Let me just see that a little bit. Ready, and go.
JS: In the old days -- this is kind of a graph from the old days,
Not necessarily the very light trend you see here, but trending in periods.
And if you decided, OK, I m going to predict today,
by the average move in the past 20 days --
maybe that would be a good prediction, and I d make some money.
would enslave us to reasons.
not beautifully, but it would work.
You d make money, you d lose money, you d make money.
But this is a year s worth of days,
How many brain scientists have the opportunity
CA: So you would test a bunch of lengths of trends in time
and see whether, for example,
a 10-day trend or a 15-day trend was predictive of what happened next.
JS: Sure, you would try all those things and see what worked best.
Trend-following would have been great in the  60s,
and it was sort of OK in the  70s.
And this is the work by Eve Marder and her many colleagues
CA: Because everyone could see that.
So, how did you stay ahead of the pack?
JS: We stayed ahead of the pack by finding other approaches --
and create highly sophisticated learning machines:
The real thing was to gather a tremendous amount of data --
and we had to get it by hand in the early days.
and stuff like that, because it didn t exist on computers.
We got a lot of data.
And very smart people -- that was the key.
I didn t really know how to hire people to do fundamental trading.
I had hired a few -- some made money, some didn t make money.
I couldn t make a business out of that.
But I did know how to hire scientists,
because I have some taste in that department.
So, that s what we did.
And gradually these models got better and better,
and better and better.
CA: You re credited with doing something remarkable at Renaissance,
which is building this culture, this group of people,
who weren t just hired guns who could be lured away by money.
Their motivation was doing exciting mathematics and science.
JS: Well, I d hoped that might be true.
But some of it was money.
to be able to not react to these heinous crimes in an adverse manner.
JS: I can t say that no one came because of the money.
I think a lot of them came because of the money.
But they also came because it would be fun.
CA: What role did machine learning play in all this?
JS: In a certain sense, what we did was machine learning.
You look at a lot of data, and you try to simulate different predictive schemes,
until you get better and better at it.
It doesn t necessarily feed back on itself the way we did things.
But it worked.
CA: So these different predictive schemes can be really quite wild and unexpected.
That s 20 miles between Mount Hope and Mount Kiffin.
You looked at the weather, length of dresses, political opinion.
JS: Yes, length of dresses we didn t try.
CA: What sort of things?
JS: Well, everything.
I would have to say: anything goes. 
Weather, annual reports,
that has partnerships in production in the south
Whatever there is.
We take in terabytes of data a day.
And store it away and massage it and get it ready for analysis.
Look at TiVo.
And it felt kind of like being president, actually.
the efficient market hypothesis is not correct.
CA: But any one anomaly might be just a random thing.
So, is the secret here to just look at multiple strange anomalies,
and see when they align?
(Applause)
watching a few crazy guys telling [us] that they would go to the Moon.
You can see an anomaly that s persistent for a sufficiently long time --
the probability of it being random is not high.
But these things fade after a while; anomalies can get washed out.
So you have to keep on top of the business.
CA: A lot of people look at the hedge fund industry now
and are sort of ... shocked by it,
and how much talent is going into it.
Do you have any worries about that industry,
and perhaps the financial industry in general?
Kind of being on a runaway train that s --
I don t know -- helping increase inequality?
How would you champion what s happening in the hedge fund industry?
JS: I think in the last three or four years,
hedge funds have not done especially well.
We ve done dandy,
but the hedge fund industry as a whole has not done so wonderfully.
The stock market has been on a roll, going up as everybody knows,
and price-earnings ratios have grown.
So an awful lot of the wealth that s been created in the last --
let s say, five or six years -- has not been created by hedge funds.
People would ask me,  What s a hedge fund? 
And I d say,  One and 20. 
Which means -- now it s two and 20 --
it s two percent fixed fee and 20 percent of profits.
Hedge funds are all different kinds of creatures.
CA: Rumor has it you charge slightly higher fees than that.
JS: We charged the highest fees in the world at one time.
Five and 44, that s what we charge.
CA: Five and 44.
So five percent flat, 44 percent of upside.
You still made your investors spectacular amounts of money.
We know it works,
People got very mad:  How can you charge such high fees? 
Just exactly what Al is trying to do, Rick is doing.
But  How can I get more?  was what people were --
(Laughter)
so that we can harness the collective ingenuity
we bought out all the investors because there s a capacity to the fund.
CA: But should we worry about the hedge fund industry
attracting too much of the world s great mathematical and other talent
But I know from my work
JS: Well, it s not just mathematical.
We hire astronomers and physicists and things like that.
I don t think we should worry about it too much.
It s still a pretty small industry.
And in fact, bringing science into the investing world
has improved that world.
It s reduced volatility. It s increased liquidity.
Spreads are narrower because people are trading that kind of stuff.
So I m not too worried about Einstein going off and starting a hedge fund.
CA: You re at a phase in your life now where you re actually investing, though,
at the other end of the supply chain --
you re actually boosting mathematics across America.
at least to me, computer music
You re working on philanthropic issues together.
Tell me about that.
JS: Well, Marilyn started --
to this wonderful country of ours
she started the foundation about 20 years ago.
I think  94.
I claim it was  93, she says it was  94,
but it was one of those two years.
(Laughter)
We started the foundation, just as a convenient way to give charity.
Because the old adage that comes from Burundi is right:
We did not have a vision at that time, but gradually a vision emerged --
which was to focus on math and science, to focus on basic research.
And that s what we ve done.
Six years ago or so, I left Renaissance and went to work at the foundation.
So that s what we do.
CA: And so Math for America is basically investing
in math teachers around the country,
giving them some extra income, giving them support and coaching.
Jimmy, you mentioned impartiality being a key to Wikipedia s success.
At the most basic level, we remember when we pay attention.
JS: Yeah -- instead of beating up the bad teachers,
which has created morale problems all through the educational community,
in particular in math and science,
we focus on celebrating the good ones and giving them status.
Yeah, we give them extra money, 15,000 dollars a year.
and every couple will determine
as part of a core.
There s a great morale among them.
They re staying in the field.
Next year, it ll be 1,000 and that ll be 10 percent
of the math and science teachers in New York [City] public schools.
(Applause)
CA: Jim, here s another project that you ve supported philanthropically:
Research into origins of life, I guess.
What are we looking at here?
JS: Well, I ll save that for a second.
And then I ll tell you what you re looking at.
Origins of life is a fascinating question.
How did we get here?
Well, there are two questions:
One is, what is the route from geology to biology --
how did we get here?
And the other question is, what did we start with?
What material, if any, did we have to work with on this route?
Those are two very, very interesting questions.
The first question is a tortuous path from geology up to RNA
or something like that -- how did that all work?
And the other, what do we have to work with?
Well, more than we think.
So what s pictured there is a star in formation.
Now, every year in our Milky Way, which has 100 billion stars,
about two new stars are created.
Don t ask me how, but they re created.
And it takes them about a million years to settle out.
So, in steady state,
there are about two million stars in formation at any time.
That one is somewhere along this settling-down period.
And there s all this crap sort of circling around it,
dust and stuff.
And it ll form probably a solar system, or whatever it forms.
But here s the thing --
in this dust that surrounds a forming star
have been found, now, significant organic molecules.
Molecules not just like methane, but formaldehyde and cyanide --
things that are the building blocks -- the seeds, if you will -- of life.
So, that may be typical.
And it may be typical that planets around the universe
start off with some of these basic building blocks.
Now does that mean there s going to be life all around?
Maybe.
But it s a question of how tortuous this path is
from those frail beginnings, those seeds, all the way to life.
And most of those seeds will fall on fallow planets.
CA: So for you, personally,
finding an answer to this question of where we came from,
of how did this thing happen, that is something you would love to see.
JS: Would love to see.
And like to know --
if that path is tortuous enough, and so improbable,
that no matter what you start with, we could be a singularity.
But on the other hand,
given all this organic dust that s floating around,
we could have lots of friends out there.
It d be great to know.
CA: Jim, a couple of years ago, I got the chance to speak with Elon Musk,
and I asked him the secret of his success,
and he said taking physics seriously was it.
Listening to you, what I hear you saying is taking math seriously,
that has infused your whole life.
It s made you an absolute fortune, and now it s allowing you to invest
in the futures of thousands and thousands of kids across America and elsewhere.
Could it be that science actually works?
That math actually works?
JS: Well, math certainly works. Math certainly works.
But this has been fun.
Working with Marilyn and giving it away has been very enjoyable.
CA: I just find it -- it s an inspirational thought to me,
that by taking knowledge seriously, so much more can come from it.
So thank you for your amazing life, and for coming here to TED.
Thank you.
Jim Simons!
there really is only one place to go,
Something is very challenging to me.
Now, you can t get to these sites
with a normal browser -- Chrome or Firefox --
is a fairytale begins,  Once upon a time, 
I know that seems ludicrous.
where URLs are a string of meaningless numbers and letters that end in .onion,
and which you access with a special browser
called the Tor browser.
Now, the Tor browser was originally a U.S. Naval intelligence project.
It then became open source,
and it allows anybody to browse the net
without giving away their location.
And it does this by encrypting your IP address
and then routing it via several other computers around the world
that use the same software.
You can use it on the normal Internet,
but it s also your key to the dark net.
And because of this fiendishly clever encryption system,
was fostered;
As you can see,
It is a censorship-free world visited by anonymous users.
Little wonder, then, that it s a natural place to go
for anybody with something to hide,
and that something, of course, need not be illegal.
On the dark net, you will find
and it would be like if you went to Starbucks
for mentally ill and economically desperate people
You will find libraries of pirated books.
Only, we don t know that it s a homeless shelter.
illegal pornography, commercial hacking services,
and much more besides.
Now, the dark net is one of the most interesting, exciting places
because we would all like to believe that the stuff that we write down on paper
And the reason is, because although innovation, of course,
takes place in big businesses,
if they in fact induce new location decisions,
it also takes place in the fringes,
because those on the fringes -- the pariahs, the outcasts --
Over 85 percent of abusers are men, and domestic abuse
In this part of the Internet,
If you re multiplying the rig,
a single pop-up advert anywhere.
And that s one of the reasons why I think
many of you here will be on the dark net fairly soon.
to reimagine Greece, to imagine a Greece
Not that I m suggesting anyone in this audience would use it
to go and procure high-quality narcotics.
But let s say for a moment that you were.
There s only one little entrance to the entire building,
The first thing you will notice on signing up to one of these sites
is how familiar it looks.
Every single product --
thousands of products --
has a glossy, high-res image,
a detailed product description, a price.
There s a  Proceed to checkout  icon.
There is even, most beautifully of all,
(Laughter)
Incredible.
because you can t say  sh  in Spanish.
My councilman even called in and said how they endorse
you enter an address -- preferably not your home address --
which it nearly always does.
And the reason it does is not because of the clever encryption.
That s important.
Something far simpler than that.
It s the user reviews.
and of the thousands of publicly traded companies today, thousands,
You see, every single vendor on these sites
uses a pseudonym, naturally enough,
but they keep the same pseudonym to build up a reputation.
And because it s easy for the buyer to change allegiance whenever they want,
the only way of trusting a vendor
is if they have a good history of positive feedback
from other users of the site.
And this introduction of competition and choice
You know. (Slurps)
Prices tend to go down, product quality tends to go up,
and the vendors are attentive,
they re polite, they re consumer-centric,
offering you all manner of special deals, one-offs,
to think outside a little bit,
to keep you happy.
I spoke to Drugsheaven.
Drugsheaven was offering excellent and consistent marijuana
at a reasonable price.
He had a very generous refund policy,
detailed T s and C s,
and good shipping times.
via the internal emailing system that s also encrypted, of course.
 I m new here. Do you mind if I buy just one gram of marijuana? 
A couple of hours later, I get a reply.
They always reply.
 Hi there, thanks for your email.
Starting small is a wise thing to do. I would, too, if I were you. 
(Laughter)
 So no problem if you d like to start with just one gram.
where we re creating our largest location-aware album to date,
But let s go back to the Higgs field.
It also shaped Darwin s scientific method,
You have to put it in a larger European context.
Now, this kind of consumer-centric attitude
and he found someone who had designed the Jockey Club in New York.
that had been left on one of these sites over a three-month period,
95 percent of them were five out of five.
I sort of looked at myself standing there, going,  Oh, Jimmy,
Alice s daughter told me
New power isn t held by a few, it s made by many.
that means there are more drugs, more available, more easily,
to more people.
(Applause)
But, on the other hand, if you are going to take drugs,
you have a reasonably good way
of guaranteeing a certain level of purity and quality,
it was heavy, it was hard to move around,
And you can do so from the comfort of your own home,
without the risks associated with buying on the streets.
Now, as I said,
So now we had our constraint.
And the 20 or so sites that are currently in operation --
by the way, they don t always work, they re not always perfect;
the site that I showed you was shut down 18 months ago,
where we re looking at other forms of waste
But these markets,
because of the difficult conditions in which they are operating,
And the second thing to do, of course,
are always innovating, always thinking of ways of getting smarter,
more decentralized, harder to censor,
So we like the idea of these figures
So the news came, I applied to school
And you could hear that little tick, tick, tick, tick.
of course -- that would lead directly back to you.
from the contents of prisoners  bowels.
which is easily exchanged for real-world currencies
15 to 20 years.
But at the beginning of these sites, people noticed a flaw.
Some of the unscrupulous dealers were running away with peoples  bitcoin
But this is the result of a very careful branding
The community came up with a solution, called multi-signature escrow payments.
Our objective is to be a millennium city, just like many millennium cities around:
I would send my bitcoin
to a neutral, secure third digital wallet.
The vendor, who would see that I d sent it,
of 5,000 years of continuing history,
and then when I received it,
at least two of the three people engaged in the transaction --
vendor, buyer, site administrator --
would have to sign the transaction off
with a unique digital signature,
and then the money would be transferred.
Brilliant!
Elegant.
It works.
But then they realized there was a problem with bitcoin,
because every bitcoin transaction
is actually recorded publicly in a public ledger.
So if you re clever, you can try and work out who s behind them.
and outfitted them with cervical caps containing artificial semen.
Hundreds of people send their bitcoin into one address,
they re tumbled and jumbled up,
and then the right amount is sent on to the right recipients,
but they re different bitcoins:
And the marimba, for everybody like me,
(Laughter)
to the well-being of others.
Interested in what drugs are trending right now on the dark net markets?
Check Grams, the search engine.
You can even buy some advertising space.
(Laughter)
around the world simply by using fertilizers,
Yeah.
One vendor will offer you fair trade organic cocaine.
(Laughter)
That s not being sourced from Colombian druglords,
but Guatemalan farmers.
What was my calling? What should I do?
into local education programs.
(Laughter)
There s even a mystery shopper.
of accumulated semen.
and I submit that it s not actually an easy question --
taking our citizens out of the process
where nobody knows who anybody else is,
constantly at risk of being shut down by the authorities,
is a staggering achievement,
a phenomenal achievement.
And it s that kind of innovation
that s why those on the fringes
are often the harbingers of what is to come.
It s easy to forget
that because of its short life,
the Internet has actually changed many times
over the last 30 years or so.
It started in the  70s as a military project,
morphed in the 1980s to an academic network,
co-opted by commercial companies in the  90s,
200-year story.
but I think it s going to change again.
a human brain, or a primate brain.
creative, secure, difficult to censor --
I think that s the future.
(Applause)
and definitely from my grandmother,
Surveys consistently show concerns about privacy.
The more time we spend online, the more we worry about them,
and those surveys show our worries are growing.
where he describes adolescence as follows:
and there are some shocking data.
Since the revelations from Edward Snowden,
there s been a huge increase in the number of people
using various privacy-enhancing tools.
still gave the Chinese a real chance for 300 million people
Paris has been a terrific model for urban beekeeping.
the majority of which use is perfectly legitimate,
sometimes even mundane.
And there are hundreds of activists around the world
working on techniques and tools to keep you private online --
default encrypted messaging services.
Ethereum, which is a project which tries to link up
the connected but unused hard drives of millions of computers around the world,
to create a sort of distributed Internet that no one really controls.
And here s the thing.
We use it for everything from Skype to the search for extraterrestrial life.
But you add distributed computing and powerful encryption --
that s very, very hard to censor and control.
Another called MaidSafe works on similar principles.
Another called Twister, and so on and so on.
And here s the thing --
the more of us join,
the more interesting those sites become,
and then the more of us join, and so on.
And I think that s what s going to happen.
In fact, it s already happening.
The dark net is no longer a den for dealers
and a hideout for whistle-blowers.
It s already going mainstream.
Just recently, the musician Aphex Twin released his album as a dark net site.
Facebook has started a dark net site.
A group of London architects have opened a dark net site
for people worried about regeneration projects.
Yes, the dark net is going mainstream,
and I predict that fairly soon, every social media company,
every major news outlet,
and therefore most of you in this audience,
will be using the dark net, too.
So the Internet is about to get more interesting,
rather than by the sensory modality involved.
more terrible,
more destructive.
That s good news if you care about liberty.
It s good news if you care about freedom.
It s good news if you care about democracy.
It s also good news
if you want to browse for illegal pornography
and if you want to buy and sell drugs
with impunity.
Neither entirely dark, nor entirely light.
It s not one side or the other that s going to win out, but both.
Thank you very much, indeed.
I will always remember
the first time I met the girl in the blue uniform.
I was eight at the time,
living in the village with my grandmother,
who was raising me and other children.
I like to play jazz,
and we just didn t have enough to eat.
We were hungry.
And that s when the girl in the blue uniform
all this language in English
to feed the children.
As she handed me my porridge,
I asked her why she was there,
and without hesitation, she said,
to see the sun shining in my face.
I had absolutely no idea what she meant.
I would have stopped to help. 
for a number of years, and this particular episode
Two years later,
and a Native American who wanted to give birth on that island,
My grandmother had no choice but to send me to the city
to live with an aunt I had never met before.
The third number is 12:
I found myself in school for the very first time.
And there, at the city school,
I would experience what it was to be unequal.
we were all equal.
But in the eyes and the minds of the other kids,
I was not their equal.
I couldn t speak English,
and I was way behind in terms of reading and writing.
it s more difficult than you think.
The pink dots represent host properties.
spent back in the village with my grandmother
made me consciously aware
with this same data?
had created within my own family.
Suddenly, I had much more than the rest of my village.
And in their eyes, I was no longer their equal.
I felt guilty.
one of the sharp knives,
as scenes from his release were broadcast nightly.
 That s who I want to be --
someone like her,
someone who uplifts other people. 
This childhood experience led me to the United Nations,
The more ideas there are in circulation,
where we are addressing one of the greatest inequalities
that affects more than half of the world s population --
doesn t buy a box of cigarettes. They buy one cigarette
Today, I want to share with you
a simple idea that seeks to uplift all of us together.
Eight months ago,
But how many of these countries do we have to work in?
head of UN Women,
we launched a groundbreaking initiative
Are they going to start having children right away?
inviting men and boys from around the world
Give me comfort, give me edge.
to create a shared vision for gender equality.
only universities and corporations have access to.
for women and men,
and those who don t yet know that they believe.
The initiative is based on a simple idea:
than what divides us.
It s called  Bloom,  and the surface is made completely
We all want the same things,
even when those things sometimes remain unspoken.
HeForShe is about uplifting all of us,
women and men together.
It s moving us towards an inflection point for gender equality.
Imagine a blank page
with one horizontal line splitting it in half.
So it s not easy for us to extricate ourselves from these insects.
Now, could this plant be the answer
In our current population,
HeForShe is about moving the 3.2 billion men,
one man at a time,
across that line,
so that ultimately, men can stand alongside women
that is actually teaching women
making gender equality a reality in the 21st century.
However, engaging men in the movement would prove quite controversial.
Why invite men? They are the problem.
(Laughter)
In fact, men don t care, we were told.
they were hoping to get clean bombs; they didn t.
had signed up and committed to be agents of change for equality.
and she has tried them all.
stood up to be counted,
that is when the education process begins.
HeForShe created more than 1.2 billion conversations on social media.
that there was no separating it from our character and personality.
sometimes as many as a thousand a day.
who, after hearing about HeForShe,
Or the same idea here, which is for a CNC machine,
(Laughter)
hand-picking all of the men that were abusive to their partners,
you go somewhere else.
In Pune, India, a youth advocate organized an innovative bicycle rally,
mobilizing 700 cyclists
but there d been this massive substitution
In another impact story,
a man sent a very personal note
of something that had happened in his own community.
He wrote,
That s why we get there so fast.
I have lived all of my life
next door to a man who continuously beats up his wife.
and objectifies us.
I was listening to my radio,
and you spoke about something called the HeForShe,
and the need for men to play their role.
Within a few hours, I heard the woman cry again next door,
I d seen it happen over and over and over again.
Whatever you want, you can download the data that way.
I felt compelled to do something,
we have to know and understand
Madam, it has been two weeks,
and the woman has not cried since.
Thank you for giving me a voice. 
(Applause)
Personal impact stories such as these
show that we are tapping into something within men,
We want concrete, systematic, structural change that can equalize
the political, economic and social realities for women and men.
I was to the point where I was using a stopwatch
calling them to intervene at a personal level,
and up into the mountains
It s pulling us to the moon! 
to change their policies.
We want male leaders to become role models
and change agents within their own institutions.
Already, a number of prominent men and leaders have stepped up
and made some concrete HeForShe commitments.
In a few early success stories,
a leading French hospitality company, Accor,
has committed to eliminate the pay gap
and the teenagers decided to fight back,
(Applause)
The government of Sweden,
under its current feminist government,
has committed to close both the employment and the pay gap
for all of its citizens within the current electoral term.
In Japan, the University of Nagoya
is building, as part of their HeForShe commitments,
what will become one of Japan s leading gender-research centers.
Now, eight months later,
a movement is building.
was the conversation that happened afterwards.
and from every single corner in the world,
from the United Nations  own Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon
to the Secretary-Generals of NATO and the EU Council,
from the prime minister of Bhutan
just like you would travel through a tunnel,
In Europe alone, all the male EU Commissioners
and the members of Parliament of the Swedish and Iceland governments
have signed up to be HeForShe.
In fact, one in 20 men in Iceland has joined the movement.
The rallying call of our passionate goodwill ambassador, Emma Watson,
has garnered more than five billion media impressions,
He s doing fine. Everything went well.
to create more than a hundred HeForShe student associations.
Now this is the beginning of the vision that HeForShe has
for the world that we want to see.
Einstein once said,
Or they like, they hope, to live on
but he experiences himself,
his thoughts and feelings,
as something separate from the rest ...
This delusion is a kind of prison for us ...
Our task must be to free ourselves from this prison
If women and men are part of a greater whole,
as Einstein suggests,
Men are still socialized to believe
that it is not our gender that defines us,
but ultimately, our shared humanity.
HeForShe is tapping into women s and men s dreams,
the dreams that we have for ourselves,
and the dreams that we have for our families, our children,
Now this is a real project that we worked on,
So that s what it is about.
HeForShe is about uplifting all of us together.
Thank you.
(Applause)
Over the past couple of days,
as most dermatologists do in Britain.
And I had a high school science teacher who would say to the class,
are, on the left, my grandmother, age five,
I see a very special audience.
This is Oliver Medvedik. He s not a vending machine,
I chose not to listen -- but to that statement alone.
So let me take you to the Andes mountains in Chile,
500 kilometers, 300 miles northeast of Santiago.
It s very remote, it s very dry and it s very beautiful.
And there s not much there.
There are condors, there are tarantulas,
At that time, a thousand questions came to mind,
it reveals one of the darkest skies on Earth.
It s kind of a magic place, the mountain.
But was there anything before the Big Bang?
a victim of my own circumstance,
Right? As if white people don t have some sort of racial identity
we really cannot think about reengineering it,
that Parliament delayed and delayed releasing that data,
We actually need to do something a little different.
We didn t know any better. We didn t pause to ask.
the metabolic rate was static.
these strong ties in our lives,
be able to point and look at the sky,
and that s why we re expanding Stawi s markets from just Kenya
That preacher bangs on the pulpit for attention.
So when we say that black lives matter, it s not because others don t,
And there s not just one of these, there s many of them.
and arrange treatment.
a kind of plain-spoken pragmatism to those
at least five of 11 possible symptoms
and she loves that flag, talking about the Israeli flag,
that are visible to us,
and each one of those galaxies has 100 billion stars within it.
And this Ideagora that he created, an open market, agora,
You can think of insulin resistance as the reduced capacity
it s only one-fiftieth of the size of the full moon.
So, if you can imagine the full moon.
 what I do is I assign the lectures for homework,
to do that kind of investigation.
The cities that already are there, well established,
was it had to be passively and intrinsically safe,
are persistence, gradations in intensity, and valence.
But the beauty of it is that it s just silk and sticks.
This tool use ability will have applications
really is our prosperity, and this explains
Well, imagine you re walking in the forest and you see a bear.
What is this technology worth
We ve even found planets that are orbiting two stars.
is pretty good odds.
and you will find the crossword puzzle,
Even in this state, what he accurately described as
over this entire 27 feet.
Injustice is about being wrongfully convicted.
then I ve done my job.
But here, in this particular case, we decided,
as we first discovered in Africa
I know there s competition in terms of funding, but what about the science?
Next year, I did four, then eight.
Okay, it s great to be back at TED.
 Productivity is not everything, but in the long run,
I proposed many new ideas to my boss every day.
There are not that many things on earth that are  almost everything. 
But I will in the end urge you
In the largest European economies,
productivity used to grow five percent per annum
in the  50s,  60s, early  70s.
From  73 to  83: three percent per annum.
From  83 to  95: two percent per annum.
Since 1995: less than one percent per annum.
The same profile in Japan.
you may decide that you see
like lightbulbs and, yes, factory redesign.
and despite all the technological innovations
one of the first that was hit by the wave.
the new information and communication technologies.
When productivity grows three percent per annum,
you double the standard of living every generation.
I m very lucky to work with two amazing collaborators.
When it grows one percent per annum,
Friends,
And in this process, many people will be less well-off than their parents.
And of course sitting still is how many of us get
smaller roofs, or perhaps no roof at all,
this competition is going to be successful.
to everything.
Think of all the problems that we re facing at the moment.
All.
Chances are that they are rooted in the productivity crisis.
after Heiberg saw it.
Because the basic tenets about efficiency --
effectiveness in organizations, in management --
Everywhere in public services -- in companies, in the way we work,
the way we innovate, invest -- try to learn to work better.
Take the holy trinity of efficiency:
We use levers all the time, in tools, doorknobs, bicycle parts.
They make human efforts derail.
There are two ways to look at it, to prove it.
One, the one I prefer,
To answer that question,
a team of 15 people,
It is to look at a relay race.
This is what we will do today.
It s a bit more animated, more visual and also faster -- it s a race.
Hopefully, it s faster.
(Laughter)
World championship final -- women.
Eight teams in the final.
The fastest team is the US team.
They have the fastest women on earth.
They are the favorite team to win.
Notably, if you compare them to an average team,
say, the French team,
(Laughter)
based on their best performances in the 100-meter race,
if you add the individual times of the US runners,
I said I wanted to meet.
And this year, the US team is in great shape.
Based on their best performance this year,
they arrive 6.4 meters ahead of the French team,
Chimpanzee: No! [ Academy Award Nominee for Visual Effects ]
We are going to look at the race.
new technologies made the distribution of knowledge
that Torri Edwards, the fourth US runner, is ahead.
Not surprising -- this year she got the gold medal in the 100-meter race.
is that it also solved the mystery
is the fastest woman on earth.
So, there are 3.5 billion women on earth.
Where are the two fastest? On the US team.
And the two other runners on the US team are not bad, either.
(Laughter)
and who thought that my ironic oh-so-cool disengagement
But behind, the average team is trying to catch up.
Let s watch the race.
So he wrote that he had seen --
(Video: Race narration ends)
Yves Morieux: So what happened?
The fastest team did not win; the slower one did.
By the way, I hope you appreciate
the deep historical research I did to make the French look good.
and you re thinking,  Jeez, Stella,
But let s not exaggerate -- it s not archeology, either.
(Laughter)
But why?
Because of cooperation.
When you hear this sentence:
 Thanks to cooperation, the whole is worth more than the sum of the parts. 
This is not poetry; this is not philosophy.
This is math.
Those who carry the baton are slower,
but their baton is faster.
1974, we were down to five countries.
it multiplies energy, intelligence in human efforts.
It is the essence of human efforts:
how we work together, how each effort contributes to the efforts of others.
With cooperation, we can do more with less.
Now, what happens to cooperation when the holy grail --
of clarity, measurement, accountability --
are being released.
When I think back to my three years away from art,
Management reports are full of complaints about the lack of clarity.
is at war with food production.
the human world,
It is as though the runners on the team were saying,
 Let s be clear -- where does my role really start and end?
Am I supposed to run for 95 meters, 96, 97...? 
It s important, let s be clear.
If you say 97, after 97 meters,
people will drop the baton, whether there is someone to take it or not.
Accountability.
We are constantly trying to put accountability
in someone s hands.
Who is accountable for this process?
We need somebody accountable for this process.
So in the relay race, since passing the baton is so important,
then we need somebody clearly accountable for passing the baton.
make sure that it had been shot, and then our clients
now we will have a new dedicated athlete,
it s as if we re doing nothing
and passing it to the next runner.
where he was working at the time.
Well, will we, in that case, win the race?
That I don t know, but for sure,
I stand here thinking and wondering
We will know who to blame.
But we ll never win the race.
If you think about it, we pay more attention
to knowing who to blame in case we fail,
than to creating the conditions to succeed.
You see, late in 2009, eight years after that shooting,
urban structures, processing systems --
what is the real goal?
To have somebody guilty in case they fail.
We are creating organizations able to fail,
but in a compliant way,
with somebody clearly accountable when we fail.
And we are quite effective at that -- failing.
Measurement.
and public opinion started to turn against those tools,
Look, to pass the baton, you have to do it at the right time,
in the right hand, at the right speed.
But to do that, you have to put energy in your arm.
It will come at the expense of your measurable speed.
You have to shout early enough to the next runner
when you will pass the baton, to signal that you are arriving,
so that the next runner can prepare, can anticipate.
And you have to shout loud.
But the blood, the energy that will be in your throat
will not be in your legs.
Because you know, there are eight people shouting at the same time.
And the new wave of innovation
You cannot say,  Is it you? 
Too late!
(Laughter)
Now, let s look at the race in slow motion,
and concentrate on the third runner.
Look at where she allocates her efforts,
as this macro-level diplomatic organization
Not all in her legs -- that would be great for her own speed --
and so the relationship between
It s like a big TED, right?
But when the next runner runs super-fast,
is it because she made a super effort,
or because of the way the third runner passed the baton?
There is no metric on earth that will give us the answer.
And if we reward people on the basis of their measurable performance,
they will put their energy, their attention, their blood
in what can get measured -- in their legs.
And the baton will fall and slow down.
To cooperate is not a super effort,
it is how you allocate your effort.
It is to take a risk,
because you sacrifice the ultimate protection
and then see how she sort of flipped it.
It is to make a super difference in the performance of others,
with whom we are compared.
It takes being stupid to cooperate, then.
And people are not stupid; they don t cooperate.
You know, clarity, accountability, measurement were OK
when the world was simpler.
But business has become much more complex.
With my teams, we have measured
the evolution of complexity in business.
It is much more demanding today to attract and retain customers,
to build advantage on a global scale,
to create value.
And the more business gets complex,
the more, in the name of clarity, accountability, measurement
we multiply structures, processes, systems.
You know, this drive for clarity and accountability triggers
a counterproductive multiplication of interfaces, middle offices,
coordinators that do not only mobilize people and resources,
but that also add obstacles.
And the more complicated the organization,
the more difficult it is to understand what is really happening.
So we need summaries, proxies, reports,
key performance indicators, metrics.
So people put their energy in what can get measured,
at the expense of cooperation.
And as performance deteriorates,
we add even more structure, process, systems.
People spend their time in meetings,
writing reports they have to do, undo and redo.
Based on our analysis, teams in these organizations
spend between 40 and 80 percent of their time wasting their time,
but working harder and harder, longer and longer,
on less and less value-adding activities.
This is what is killing productivity,
and citizens are engaged and empowered
Our organizations are wasting human intelligence.
They have turned against human efforts.
When people don t cooperate,
don t blame their mindsets, their mentalities, their personality --
look at the work situations.
Is it really in their personal interest to cooperate or not,
if, when they cooperate, they are individually worse off?
Why would they cooperate?
When we blame personalities
(Applause)
We need to create organizations
in which it becomes individually useful for people to cooperate.
Remove the interfaces, the middle offices --
all these complicated coordination structures.
Don t look for clarity; go for fuzziness.
Fuzziness overlaps.
Remove most of the quantitative metrics to assess performance.
Speed the  what. 
Look at cooperation, the  how. 
How did you pass the baton?
Did you throw it, or did you pass it effectively?
Am I putting my energy in what can get measured --
my legs, my speed -- or in passing the baton?
You, as leaders, as managers,
he must have spent years working with him.
The future of our organizations,
our companies, our societies
the open loops, the half-finished to-do lists,
Thank you.
(Applause)
Two and a half million people will be permanently disabled or displaced,
If you can reduce the initial response by one day,
you can reduce the overall recovery
(Laughter)
If the initial responders can get in, save lives,
A major insurance company told me
And that s why I do disaster robotics --
Now, you ve already seen a couple of these.
for days, weeks, months, that space would get bigger
And they re used extensively since 2005 --
We are right now seeing a much larger scale
So I came to work for California Pacific Medical Center,
of sculpture and of decorative arts --
— a charity I ve worked with for years —
 What makes the difference in the quality of people s lives?
We are the new editors.
Because it s an arranged marriage, not a love marriage.
along that part of Washington State.
So they needed to understand what was going on.
We gave them in seven hours data that they could take
Why is it okay that the government is keeping all of this information?
and at higher resolution.
It s a game changer.
I wanted to do something that was working
Think about the Japanese tsunami --
to support a population.
of what they were seeing.
and it was going to take the divers two weeks.
It s about man s best friend. It s about dogs.
But you know, all the robots I ve shown you have been small,
Unmanned ground vehicles are particularly small,
because the sunlight from far above
a five-year-old would take for granted, the Internet.
are great for sanctions busting too.
like the excitement of the work,
I had to destroy it?
They assist the responders, the experts, in new and innovative ways.
The biggest problem is the data, the informatics,
your railroad transportation engineers,
have been trained on whatever UAV that particular county happens to have?
Probably, like, none.
What the robots give you, what they give the experts, is data.
and worse yet, it overwhelms the cognitive abilities
and on the deck, they have splendid entertainment.
At the end of that process, after doing it for months and months,
we tried to solve that problem by just recording the data from Bujold
Is there any relief from some of these pressures
and they found that they were all
by putting a book on the scanner.
Now, we re looking, if we can get the data from the robots to share,
the strategic vision, for these investments,
then you ve figured out that you don t need the bank,
We can t just say,  Well, if they re young enough to benefit from these therapies,
It s not about the robots.
recovery rates as compared to 50 percent
we can use brain imaging and look at the impact
And as the number of people who are older, above retirement age and getting older, as they increase,
with mild fever, headache, muscle pains,
followed by vomiting and diarrhea,
then bleeding from the mouth, nose and gums.
is the one question everyone always asks:
Sounds familiar?
and discovered an injury in her lungs,
actually, in this case, it s not.
It s an extreme form of dengue fever, a mosquito-born disease
front of a health center, people s front gardens,
That is actually twice the number of people
in the nearly four decades that we ve known about it.
My job is to root out and prevent activity that might.
the death toll is actually tenfold higher.
Yet for the last year,
it has been Ebola that has stolen all of the headlines and the fear.
Clearly, there is something deeply rooted about it,
more than other diseases.
some sort of musical gift.
Well, it s hard to acquire Ebola,
but if you do, the risk of a horrible death is high.
Why?
Because right now, we don t have any effective therapy or vaccine available.
We may have it someday.
literature, we will see a biased sample of the true picture
because it doesn t kill as many people as other diseases.
In fact, it s much less transmissible than viruses such as flu or measles.
Neither were they first designed
We fear the certain inevitability that comes with Ebola.
Ebola has this inevitability that seems to defy modern medical science.
But wait a second, why is that?
We ve known about Ebola since 1976.
We ve known what it s capable of.
We ve had ample opportunity to study it
in the 24 outbreaks that have occurred.
And in fact, we ve actually had vaccine candidates available now
for more than a decade.
Why is that those vaccines are just going into clinical trials now?
Now the really interesting thing about these reactors
with vaccine development for infectious diseases.
It goes something like this:
Banks used to open and operate between 10 and 3.
are also the ones least able to pay for vaccines.
This leaves little in the way of market incentives
The layer by layer process
unless there are large numbers of people who are at risk in wealthy countries.
address and telephone number published to everyone.
As for Ebola, there is absolutely no market at all,
so the only reason we have two vaccines in late-stage clinical trials now,
is actually because of a somewhat misguided fear.
like your political preference,
until September 11 and the anthrax attacks,
So the local news started writing about it,
as, potentially, a bioterrorism weapon.
And that s the story that we tell in big history.
Well, partially, because it was really difficult --
or thought to be difficult -- to weaponize the virus,
but mainly because of the financial risk in developing it.
standardized achievement test scores,
The sad reality is, we develop vaccines
not based upon the risk the pathogen poses to people,
but on how economically risky it is to develop these vaccines.
Vaccine development is expensive and complicated.
It can cost hundreds of millions of dollars
to take even a well-known antigen and turn it into a viable vaccine.
Fortunately for diseases like Ebola,
there are things we can do to remove some of these barriers.
The first is to recognize when there s a complete market failure.
In that case, if we want vaccines,
we have to provide incentives or some type of subsidy.
We also need to do a better job at being able to figure out
which are the diseases that most threaten us.
So now I ve got you inside of the frame,
I spend a lot of time with youth groups,
to understand the geographic and genetic diversity,
how these are being changed immunologically,
and what type of reactions they promote.
by the way antibiotics are actually used.
but to do this, if we want to deal with a complete market failure,
and it s not going to make much difference to this crew.
We have to stop waiting until we see evidence
of a disease becoming a global threat before we consider it as one.
So, for Ebola,
and when I got here, I looked up Hubert Dreyfus,
followed by a few cases transported to wealthy countries,
led the global community to come together,
and with the work of dedicated vaccine companies,
we now have these:
Two Ebola vaccines in efficacy trials in the Ebola countries --
could do just as good a job,
and a pipeline of vaccines that are following behind.
Every year, we spend billions of dollars,
keeping a fleet of nuclear submarines permanently patrolling the oceans
to protect us from a threat that almost certainly will never happen.
And yet, we spend virtually nothing
to prevent something as tangible and evolutionarily certain
as epidemic infectious diseases.
going through to the current day, people like Locke and Hume.
These bugs are going to continue to evolve
and they re going to threaten the world.
And vaccines are our best defense.
So if we want to be able to prevent epidemics like Ebola,
we need to take on the risk of investing in vaccine development
and in stockpile creation.
and it s got stem cells in it.
One day, I had a conversation with my mother
Thank you.
(Applause)
I m going to start by asking you a question:
one that is still speculative but hugely exciting,
and certainly one that s growing very rapidly.
Quantum biology asks a very simple question:
that weird and wonderful and powerful theory
of the subatomic world of atoms and molecules
that underpins so much of modern physics and chemistry --
also play a role inside the living cell?
in living organisms that can only be explained
with a helping hand from quantum mechanics?
It s because perception is grounded in our experience.
it s been around since the early 1930s.
But it s only in the last decade or so that careful experiments --
in biochemistry labs, using spectroscopy --
It turns out the pre-frontal cortex does lots of things,
that require quantum mechanics to explain them.
Quantum biology brings together quantum physicists, biochemists,
I come from quantum physics, so I m a nuclear physicist.
I ve spent more than three decades
I did propose that we should spend 21 billion hours a week,
One of the founders of quantum mechanics, Niels Bohr,
(Laughter)
So I sort of feel happy that I m still astonished by it.
Now working memory capacity
But it means I study the very smallest structures in the universe --
the building blocks of reality.
If we think about the scale of size,
You have these unbelievable new cities in China,
and just go down orders of magnitude in size --
from the eye of a needle down to a cell, down to a bacterium, down to an enzyme --
you eventually reach the nano-world.
Now, nanotechnology may be a term you ve heard of.
(Laughter)
It s even smaller in scale.
This is the domain of quantum mechanics,
and physicists and chemists have had a long time
to try and get used to it.
Biologists, on the other hand, have got off lightly, in my view.
They are very happy with their balls-and-sticks models of molecules.
(Laughter)
about diarrheal diseases killing so many kids around the world,
that s always there when you need it and doesn t really interfere.
nowadays, they have very powerful computers
that will simulate a huge molecule.
This is a protein made up of 100,000 atoms.
It doesn t really require much in the way of quantum mechanics to explain it.
Quantum mechanics was developed in the 1920s.
extremely low-cost, extremely fast,
that explain the world of the very small.
And it s a world that s very different from our everyday world,
made up of trillions of atoms.
It s a world built on probability and chance.
It s a fuzzy world.
It s a world of phantoms,
where particles can also behave like spread-out waves.
If we imagine quantum mechanics or quantum physics, then,
as the fundamental foundation of reality itself,
I ll show you what I mean.
So I would need a piano to practice on,
After all, it gives us the rules that tell us
how the atoms fit together to make organic molecules.
Organic chemistry, scaled up in complexity,
Then a process of dehumanization started that day.
So in a way, it s sort of not surprising.
It s almost trivial.
You say,  Well, of course life ultimately must depend of quantum mechanics. 
They had never heard of Mark Zuckerberg or Steve Jobs.
Ultimately, there s a quantum level
where we have to delve into this weirdness.
But in everyday life, we can forget about it.
Because once you put together trillions of atoms,
that quantum weirdness just dissolves away.
Quantum biology isn t about this.
I only prepared 15.
Of course quantum mechanics underpins life at some molecular level.
and we need to keep that carbon in those forests
the counterintuitive ideas in quantum mechanics --
and to see if they do, indeed, play an important role
in describing the processes of life.
Here is my perfect example of the counterintuitiveness
you will be able to learn a couple hundred characters,
This is the quantum skier.
He seems to be intact, he seems to be perfectly healthy,
and yet, he seems to have gone around both sides of that tree at the same time.
you d guess it was some sort of stunt, of course.
It s actually running at real rate right now,
Particles can multitask, they can be in two places at once.
They can do more than one thing at the same time.
Particles can behave like spread-out waves.
It s almost like magic.
Physicists and chemists have had nearly a century
of trying to get used to this weirdness.
I don t blame the biologists
for not having to or wanting to learn quantum mechanics.
You see, this weirdness is very delicate;
and we physicists work very hard to maintain it in our labs.
We cool our system down to near absolute zero,
we carry out our experiments in vacuums,
 Ash, have you ever been to the Castro? 
That s very different from the warm, messy, noisy environment of a living cell.
So we have this paradox,
seems to have done very well in describing all the processes of life
in terms of chemistry -- chemical reactions.
who had nearly died in prison
So you can imagine that if you are a generic company
and if we can forget about quantum mechanics in the macro world,
and ache to go back home.
Well, one man begged to differ with this idea.
Erwin Schrödinger, of Schrödinger s Cat fame,
was an Austrian physicist.
He was one of the founders of quantum mechanics in the 1920s.
In 1944, he wrote a book called  What is Life? 
It was tremendously influential.
It influenced Francis Crick and James Watson,
the discoverers of the double-helix structure of DNA.
He s okay. His skull is quite strong.
At the molecular level, living organisms have a certain order,
a structure to them that s very different
I love that because there is like a whole demographic: unattached hiccuppers.
is a somewhat touchy subject.
In fact, living matter seems to behave in this order, in a structure,
just like inanimate matter cooled down to near absolute zero,
The male of this species has a massive brain
So, Schrödinger speculated that maybe quantum mechanics plays a role in life.
It s a very speculative, far-reaching idea,
and it didn t really go very far.
But as I mentioned at the start,
in the last 10 years, there have been experiments emerging,
showing where some of these certain phenomena in biology
I want to share with you just a few of the exciting ones.
from an especially attractive male,
quantum tunneling.
The box on the left shows the wavelike, spread-out distribution
of a quantum entity -- a particle, like an electron,
The system should allow for that,
It s a wave that has a certain probability of being able to permeate
through a solid wall, like a phantom leaping through to the other side.
any medicines for rare and orphan diseases,
Quantum tunneling suggests that a particle can hit an impenetrable barrier,
and yet somehow, as though by magic,
disappear from one side and reappear on the other.
The nicest way of explaining it is if you want to throw a ball over a wall,
you have to give it enough energy to get over the top of the wall.
you can throw it at the wall, and there s a certain non-zero probability
Fears of my bed,
This isn t speculation, by the way.
We re happy -- well,  happy  is not the right word --
(Laughter)
we are familiar with this.
(Laughter)
Quantum tunneling takes place all the time;
It has two big differences
The particles fuse together,
and the Sun turns hydrogen into helium through quantum tunneling.
Back in the 70s and 80s, it was discovered that quantum tunneling also takes place
inside living cells.
Enzymes, those workhorses of life, the catalysts of chemical reactions --
enzymes are biomolecules that speed up chemical reactions in living cells,
by many, many orders of magnitude.
And it s always been a mystery how they do this.
Well, it was discovered
that one of the tricks that enzymes have evolved to make use of,
is by transferring subatomic particles, like electrons and indeed protons,
from one part of a molecule to another via quantum tunneling.
Those are her daughters, the eggs.
a proton can disappear from one place, and reappear on the other.
So hopefully I can improve on that.
This is research that s been carried out back in the 80s,
and I don t exclude myself,
Other groups in the UK have now also confirmed
have certainly been in that position,
Research carried out by my group --
so as I mentioned, I m a nuclear physicist,
but I ve realized I ve got these tools of using quantum mechanics
in atomic nuclei, and so can apply those tools in other areas as well.
One question we asked
is whether quantum tunneling plays a role in mutations in DNA.
Again, this is not a new idea; it goes all the way back to the early 60s.
The two strands of DNA, the double-helix structure,
are held together by rungs; it s like a twisted ladder.
And those rungs of the ladder are hydrogen bonds --
protons, that act as the glue between the two strands.
So if you zoom in, what they re doing is holding these large molecules --
nucleotides -- together.
Zoom in a bit more.
So, this a computer simulation.
The two white balls in the middle are protons,
and you can see that it s a double hydrogen bond.
One prefers to sit on one side; the other, on the other side
of the two strands of the vertical lines going down, which you can t see.
It can happen that these two protons can hop over.
Watch the two white balls.
They can jump over to the other side.
If the two strands of DNA then separate, leading to the process of replication,
and the two protons are in the wrong positions,
this can lead to a mutation.
This has been known for half a century.
The question is: How likely are they to do that,
and if they do, how do they do it?
Do they jump across, like the ball going over the wall?
Some think it s too many calories consumed.
Early indications suggest that quantum tunneling can play a role here.
We still don t know yet how important it is;
this is still an open question.
It s speculative,
but it s one of those questions that is so important
that if quantum mechanics plays a role in mutations,
surely this must have big implications,
but to you, as citizens.
possibly even those that lead to turning a cell cancerous.
Another example of quantum mechanics in biology is quantum coherence,
in one of the most important processes in biology,
photosynthesis: plants and bacteria taking sunlight,
It becomes the rainstorm.
Quantum coherence is the idea of quantum entities multitasking.
It s the quantum skier.
And finally, well, there are those who believe
so that it doesn t just move in one direction or the other,
but can follow multiple pathways at the same time.
Some years ago, the world of science was shocked
when a paper was published showing experimental evidence
that quantum coherence takes place inside bacteria,
carrying out photosynthesis.
The idea is that the photon, the particle of light, the sunlight,
And I want to tell you now an experiment,
reporting harassment,
and I read to them, and I saw that they responded to my work.
it follows multiple pathways at once,
to optimize the most efficient way of reaching the reaction center
without dissipating as waste heat.
Quantum coherence taking place inside a living cell.
A remarkable idea,
I m going to make your lives easy this afternoon
confirming that this does indeed take place.
My third and final example is the most beautiful, wonderful idea.
Thank you very much.
The European robin migrates from Scandinavia
down to the Mediterranean, every autumn,
there s now a new person in town
they navigate by sensing the Earth s magnetic field.
Now, the Earth s magnetic field is very, very weak;
it s 100 times weaker than a fridge magnet,
and yet it affects the chemistry -- somehow -- within a living organism.
That s not in doubt -- a German couple of ornithologists,
Wolfgang and Roswitha Wiltschko, in the 1970s, confirmed that indeed,
the robin does find its way by somehow sensing the Earth s magnetic field,
to give it directional information -- a built-in compass.
The puzzle, the mystery was: How does it do it?
Well, the only theory in town --
we don t know if it s the correct theory, but the only theory in town --
is that it does it via something called quantum entanglement.
Inside the robin s retina --
I kid you not -- inside the robin s retina is a protein called cryptochrome,
which is light-sensitive.
Within cryptochrome, a pair of electrons are quantum-entangled.
Now, quantum entanglement is when two particles are far apart,
and yet somehow remain in contact with each other.
Even Einstein hated this idea;
he called it  spooky action at a distance. 
(Laughter)
So if Einstein doesn t like it, then we can all be uncomfortable with it.
Two quantum-entangled electrons within a single molecule
dance a delicate dance
and I m glad to share with you
in the Earth s magnetic field.
We don t know if it s the correct explanation,
but wow, wouldn t it be exciting if quantum mechanics helps birds navigate?
Quantum biology is still in it infancy.
It s still speculative.
But I believe it s built on solid science.
I also think that in the coming decade or so,
we re going to start to see that actually, it pervades life --
that life has evolved tricks that utilize the quantum world.
(Laughter) (Applause)
Thank you.
(Applause)
I was raised by lesbians in the mountains,
One seventh of the Earth s population
I ll start with when I was eight years old.
they generally have one of two reactions.
And I thought some strange humanoids or aliens in 500 years would find this box
around 180 billion dollars in today s money,
Anyway, this is kind of funny,
Now, at some point I was in Hawaii --
And I took a dictionary and I ripped it up,
And so what if you could design and build electronics
He brought up Facebook, and he said,
So we need a new fire.
So what did I do? I built more boxes.
This time, I started putting electronics, frogs,
So I started drawing around the objects,
The Amazon is the  lung of the world, 
you realize that in the periods in which we have a lot of money,
It was really fun; I was just drawing on the layers of resin.
recovered thanks to this wonder drug, penicillin.
cyber can make all of these things impossible.
Let s pick a bit of data from
And this really worked, because I could stop using the resin.
So I did this for years,
but to the officers as well.
which also makes it an ideal target to go into
and often, the mind gravitates in the past
with financial factors into the investment process.
It s 18 feet long.
It s kind of weird.
you guys go on down there.
Make a wish. (Blowing noise)
but her bed was still covered with stuffed animals.
had built up and built up in the Yellowstone Park,
after spending 20 years in search of these molecules,
about these buildings as an extension or an expansion of my artistic practice?
Anyway, this is a lady creature.
So that s one side of  The Triptych. 
It s a little narrative thing.
it s kind of computer music.
And instead of applying feeble human minds
Then she has an 18-foot-long serpent s tail that connects  The Triptych. 
Anyway, her tail catches on fire from the back of the volcano.
and said,  That s it. 
Her tail terminates in a cycloptic eyeball,
of my society.
killed by Muslim fundamentalists.
and since not many people tried to cross during the day,
so that s a really different outcome
whether it s encyclopedias or dictionaries or magazines.
And you kind of walk through them. It s taking me years.
This one has a little cave in his chest.
That s his head; there s the chest, you can kind of see the beginning.
who fell kind of between-the-lines --
rather than a sick-care system,
That s a body getting split in half.
This one has two heads,
You can see the pills coming out,
and learned more and more complex things
This brings you to my latest box.
It s a brick box. It s called Pioneer Works.
Together, the central banks of the U.S.,
and you ask them why did they sign up.
We shake this box up,
so help if we needed it was nowhere to be found.
We re all really made up of the same stuff, in the same box.
a constant state. And here s another thing that happened.
Thank you very much.
(Applause)
For more than 100 years,
isn t just about stop signs and traffic signals.
they re beautiful,
But as in so many other industries,
In my husband s homeland
I want that to sink in for a second:
Once, he jumped out of our third floor apartment.
It was the bedtime of my son, Aboody.
And I was there to study their brains.
and I went to the doctor.
The tech industry around the world tends to operate under similar assumptions
that hacks into the surveillance system of the telephone companies.
and I worked on many stories.
For example, many of you might have an iPhone,
and if you use an iPhone to send a text message
Likewise, if you use FaceTime to make an audio call
WhatsApp, which is now owned by Facebook
and the crazy thing is that everybody just assumes,
Let s assume you go to the Caribbean,
So, after 100 years of being able to listen to any telephone call --
failed Patrick, Debbie and Wael,
What upsets them the most
It s the default piece that matters.
by fecal particles that are on his fingers and feet.
Now, look -- I m extremely sympathetic to their point of view.
But those surveillance features come at a cost.
The reason for that is
that there is no such thing as a terrorist laptop,
We all use the same communications devices.
Pete, you have ALS. 
But as you can also see, projected going forward,
So choreography can be taught physically over distance
that are wiretap friendly?
So the scenario of hacking of surveillance systems that I ve described --
In 2009,
By the same token,
The foreign government or hackers who did that were never caught.
And really, this gets to the very problem with these surveillance features,
So I think you can imagine all the cool things that we could do
We found out that our three roommates -- Nawroz, Jaffar and Shabbir --
And so for that reason, I think that it s better
Yes, this means that in the future,
catching bad guys.
So what do I say?
About eight hours later,
Thank you.
HG: Indeed! It was the 17.
you just might not realize how strong and how secure those tools are,
And so, my message to you is this:
We need to use these tools.
We need to secure our telephone calls.
or a flag of convenience.
I want you to use these tools.
I want you to tell your loved ones, I want you to tell your colleagues:
(Applause)
This is a painting from the 16th century from Lucas Cranach the Elder.
It shows the famous Fountain of Youth.
If you drink its water or you bathe in it, you will get health and youth.
Every culture, every civilization has dreamed of finding eternal youth.
There are people like Alexander the Great or Ponce De León, the explorer,
They didn t find it.
But what if there was something to it?
Location information can be very sensitive.
than your  average  supermassive black hole.
in a recent number of studies about growing,
that animals -- old mice -- that share a blood supply with young mice
This is similar to what you might see in humans, in Siamese twins,
But what Tom Rando, a stem-cell researcher, reported in 2007,
This was reproduced by Amy Wagers at Harvard a few years later,
But what I m most excited about, and several other labs as well,
And if we used the same software on the right video,
I decided I would read poetry from all over the world,
who has been very well engaged by a criminal organization,
Three is a hip-hop kind of number.
And I repeat:
So when we get older --
from the city centers and from their jobs,
And up to around age 50 or 60, these functions are all intact,
Now, one in three people living in cities today
The poet Frank O Hara said,
We know that with age, the connections between neurons --
Suddenly, infections that had been a death sentence
so if you were to take the lid off that bottle,
appreciation and gratitude.
One big problem we have -- to try to understand how this really works
trying to be a people-pleaser, a lack of courage.
This is what neuropathologists do, for example.
So, how about we think of the brain as being part of the larger organism.
Small people wandering about.
how do we think and feel about them,
Well frankly, I think that s a stupid aim.
why they had inevitably won
Blood is the tissue that not only carries cells that transport oxygen, for example,
like  brunch  is a blend of  breakfast  and  lunch. 
They gave him a car bomb, they gave him an AK-47,
and musicians around the world.
We know that as we get older, the blood changes as well,
It s like, the separation of church and state.
it s also about the people.
because you had video discs,
And what we noticed first
And the way this looks is shown in this graph.
So, on the one axis you see the actual age a person lived,
And what you see is that there is a pretty good correlation,
You can see here, the person I highlighted with the green dot
But more importantly: Is this a person who is maybe at a reduced risk
was back in 2001, and it didn t go so well.
On the other hand, the person here, highlighted with the red dot,
and over time, we would hope to develop this
happened to be right on top of his face area.
So what I ve shown you so far is simply correlational, right?
So what I m going to show you now is very remarkable
And that s where we come back to this model called parabiosis.
full only of animals and occasionally
What we found is quite remarkable.
They re fascinating creatures.
find new interfaces,
And there s less of this bad inflammation.
But we observed that there are no cells entering the brains of these animals.
Instead, we ve reasoned, then, that it must be the soluble factors,
Thank you, Boulder. Enjoy your night. (Applause)
I couldn t agree more. Science couldn t agree more.
and as a control, saline,
and asked, can we again rejuvenate these old mice?
And to do this, we used a test. It s called a Barnes maze.
five percent of 20,000 is 1,000.
So we teach them, over several days,
So building community among those students, very important.
This is an old mouse that has memory problems,
It just looks into every hole, but it didn t form this spacial map
Okay. Next question.
And as you noticed, it almost looks around,  Where am I?  --
if you think that they are traumatized or depressed,
Let s say that Brazil
Celebrity is about a lot of people loving you from a distance,
Young blood factors can reverse aging,
And most importantly, humans may have similar factors,
Old human blood, I didn t show you, does not have this effect;
So, is this magic transferable to humans?
We test them cognitively,
And if that s the case, that could give us hope
Now we at the Walters Art Museum have followed this example,
Now, I don t think we will live forever.
But maybe we discovered
And if we can turn it back on a little bit,
you re always going to do it.
Thank you very much.
Over the past 10 years,
And I ve noticed an interesting shift.
For a long period of time,
we believed in a natural ranking order in the world around us,
also known as the great chain of being, or  Scala naturae  in Latin,
a top-down structure that normally starts with God at the very top,
And you can look far back into the past,
The pilot had already turned the plane around,
which classified all things known to man in a set of opposing categories,
like the ones you see behind me.
But over time, interestingly enough,
this concept adopted the branching schema of a tree
in what became known as the Porphyrian tree,
I only realized we weren t there to document the event
such a powerful metaphor for conveying information
that it became, over time, an important communication tool
they re rippling with different frequencies,
We can see trees being used to map morality,
with the popular tree of virtues and tree of vices,
The city has some of the most beautiful architecture in the world,
take you to the nearest mental institution.
in the digital age,
people don t pay, taxpayers don t pay, for your life
perhaps the most famous archetype of the tree diagram.
It is protected by the Antarctic Treaty, signed in 1959.
Many of you probably even have your own family trees drawn in such a way.
We can see trees even mapping systems of law,
the various decrees and rulings of kings and rulers.
And finally, of course, also a very popular scientific metaphor,
we can see trees being used to map all species known to man.
because in many ways, they really embody this human desire
However, nowadays we are really facing new complex, intricate challenges
that cannot be understood by simply employing a simple tree diagram.
and it s currently replacing the tree
It s really providing us with a new lens to understand the world around us.
We can see this shift in the way we try to understand the brain.
While before, we used to think of the brain
where a given area was responsible for a set of actions and behaviors,
This is a beautiful snapshot created by the Blue Brain Project,
And this is only mapping 10 percent of a mammalian neocortex.
to capture the same thing.
And Llull was actually the precursor,
the very first one who created the metaphor of science as a tree,
all the time programming,
 Biology is a branch of science, 
If you have an idea, you just go and you make it.
 Genetics is a branch of science. 
But perhaps the most beautiful of all trees of knowledge, at least for me,
was created for the French encyclopedia by Diderot and d Alembert in 1751.
This was really the bastion of the French Enlightenment,
And it actually maps out all domains of knowledge
where their living standard improvements are going to come from,
These are two maps of Wikipedia showing the inter-linkage of articles --
The object even has its own tutu. (Laughter)
And the same approach can be applied to technology as well.
arguably one of the largest rhizomatic structures ever created by man --
we can really understand how human knowledge is much more intricate
and interdependent, just like a network.
They do things in small chunks.
I m assuming many of you have seen a similar chart as well,
in your own corporations, or others.
It s a top-down structure
is a very nice experience.
But humans sometimes are, well, actually, all humans are unique in their own way,
I think the Internet is really changing this paradigm quite a lot.
This is a fantastic map of online social collaboration
between Perl developers.
Perl is a famous programming language,
And here, you can notice that this is a completely decentralized process --
there s no leader in this organization,
it s a network.
We can also see this interesting shift when we look at terrorism.
One of the main challenges of understanding terrorism nowadays
they potentially could be
where there s no leader leading the whole process.
And here, you can actually see how visualization is being used.
when groups of young men came forward
Interestingly, though, it wasn t just
And what they did here is, they actually segmented the network
represented by the vertical layers that you see behind me.
And the blue lines tie together
the people that were present in that network year after year.
So even though there s no leader per se,
these people are probably the most influential ones in that organization,
I started examining my city,
We can also see this shift from trees into networks
in the way we classify and organize species.
every hydrostatic skeleton
which Darwin called the  Tree of Life. 
There s actually a letter from Darwin to the publisher,
to make them faster, easier and seamless for the new customers.
and computer scientists and researchers
is a dense network of bacteria,
and these bacteria are actually tying together
to what scientists are now calling not the tree of life,
but the web of life, the network of life.
when we look at ecosystems around our planet.
No more do we have these simplified predator-versus-prey diagrams
This is a much more accurate depiction of an ecosystem.
will reach the same standard as an office secretary in the West.
mapping close to 100 species that interact with the codfish
off the coast of Newfoundland in Canada.
And I think here, we can really understand the intricate and interdependent nature
But even though recent, this metaphor of the network,
is really already adopting various shapes and forms,
It s almost becoming the syntax of a new language.
And this is one aspect that truly fascinates me.
And these are actually 15 different typologies
has a span of about six to seven objects of attention,
and it really shows the immense visual diversity of this new metaphor.
And here is an example.
On the very top band, you have radial convergence,
a visualization model that has become really popular over the last five years.
At the top left, the very first project is a gene network,
Didn t anyone get that? (Laughter)
followed by a network of Facebook friends.
yet they are using the same metaphor, the same visual model,
to map the never-ending complexities of its own subject.
And here are a few more examples of the many I ve been collecting,
of this growing visual taxonomy of networks.
But networks are not just a scientific metaphor.
And now we want to share. That s the next step.
they are in many ways influencing traditional art fields,
like painting and sculpture,
and influencing many different artists.
If those workers run away,
they re immensely gorgeous --
they are really becoming a cultural meme,
and driving a new art movement, which I ve called  networkism. 
by making a CD of the songs from the tribe, and some drumbeating.
This is just one of many examples,
The example on your left side is IP-mapping,
And on your right side,
you have  Transient Structures and Unstable Networks  by Sharon Molloy,
using oil and enamel on canvas.
In honoring this commitment,
some gorgeous, intricate paintings.
took place on the Sabbath day,
On your left side, you have  Operation Smile. 
It is a computer-generated map of a social network.
And on your right side, you have  Field 4,  by Emma McNally,
using only graphite on paper.
Emma McNally is one of the main leaders of this movement,
and she creates these striking, imaginary landscapes,
But networkism doesn t happen only in two dimensions.
And I think the title really says it all -- it s called:
 Galaxies Forming Along Filaments,
And I just find this particular project to be immensely powerful.
It was created by Tomás Saraceno,
and he occupies these large spaces,
creates these massive installations using only elastic ropes.
As you actually navigate that space and bounce along those elastic ropes,
the entire network kind of shifts, almost like a real organic network would.
This was created by Japanese artist Chiharu Shiota
in a piece called  In Silence. 
And Chiharu, like Tomás Saraceno, fills these rooms with this dense network,
that people are going to start doing my show next week, so --
and it doesn t get reported in the press or in the media
sometimes even including people, in many of her installations.
But networks are also not just a new trend,
Networks really embody notions of decentralization,
of interconnectedness, of interdependence.
And this new way of thinking is critical
from decoding the human brain,
to understanding the vast universe out there.
On your left side, you have a snapshot of a neural network of a mouse --
very similar to our own at this particular scale.
And on your right side, you have the Millennium Simulation.
It was the largest and most realistic simulation
It was able to recreate the history of 20 million galaxies
in approximately 25 terabytes of output.
And coincidentally or not,
and the largest scale of knowledge -- the universe itself --
The Stasi didn t try to arrest every dissident.
Because as Bruce Mau once said,
 When everything is connected to everything else,
for better or for worse, everything matters. 
(Applause)
When Patrick Henry, the governor of Virginia,
and it s cooler than in the movies.
to the labor force.
Beyond flying, breathing fire,
and making hot men spontaneously appear ...
Usually when I say this, someone says,  Spotify!
[Beautiful]
Fun fact is that I wrote my personal statement to college
And I did accepted. So, yeah.
BL: What are you reading? There are no words there.
I think in pictures, not words.
a little boy who, when he gets upset,
There are many people like me;
Nikola Tesla, for example,
with, interestingly, another movie
all of his inventions -- in his mind, accurately.
(Laughter)
I am a bit more primitive,
(Laughter)
My brain has the ability to hyper-focus on things that interest me.
For example, once I had an affair with calculus
that lasted longer than some celebrity marriages.
and, you know, people might like it.
There are some other unusual things about me.
You may have noticed that I don t have much inflection
That s why people often confuse me with a GPS.
(Laughter)
This can make basic communication a challenge, unless you need directions.
(Laughter)
Thank you.
(Applause)
They re all building cities
Tourism is one of them, but also media and education,
You find muscular tubes, modified legs, modified fins,
(Laughter)
And I had no idea what she was talking about.
(Laughter)
She said,  Do that thing, you know, with your eyes,
 What thing?  I asked.
 You know, squint. 
And so I tried, really.
It looked something like this.
but the second day, they ll come and they say,
I looked like I was searching for Waldo.
(Laughter)
to shuttle time forward, and now
what this tinkering ecosystem is about,
(Laughter)
I have Asperger s,
a high-functioning form of autism
that impairs the basic social skills one is expected to display.
It s made life difficult in many ways,
(Laughter)
My friends would tell jokes, but I didn t understand them.
We have very good data since 1962 -- 1960 about --
My personality switched from being shy and awkward
to being defiant and cursing out a storm.
Needless to say, I did not have many friends.
I was also hypersensitive to texture.
The feel of water on my skin was like pins and needles,
and so for years, I refused to shower.
I can assure you that my hygiene routine is up to standards now, though.
(Laughter)
I had to do a lot to get here, and my parents --
and on top of everything, it made a difficult situation worse.
And I had to travel 2,000 miles across the country to get treatment,
but within days of them prescribing a new medication,
that is an art form
I became paranoid, and began to hallucinate
that rotting corpses were coming towards me.
My family finally rescued me,
but by that time, I had lost 19 pounds in those three weeks,
So our building block is carbon nanotubes, for example,
I transferred to a new treatment center that understood my aversions,
my trauma, and my social anxiety,
And after 18 months of hard work,
I see this incredible speed and scale.
One of the things with Asperger s is that oftentimes,
these people have a very complex inner life,
and I know for myself, I have a very colorful personality,
rich ideas, and just a lot going on in my mind.
But there s a gap between where that stands,
and how I communicate it with the rest of the world.
And this can make basic communication a challenge.
Not many places would hire me, due to my lack of social skills,
(Laughter)
(Laughter)
Waffle House is an exceptional 24-hour diner --
(Laughter)
It s something that so many girls --
where you can order your hash browns
the many ways that someone would dispose of a human corpse ...
as Bahrain but consumes 100 times less per person.
Sliced, diced, peppered, chunked, topped, capped, and covered.
(Laughter)
As social norms would have it,
So one time, at 2 am, I was chatting with a waitress, and I asked her,
and that limits what we are capable of imagining.
And that search has led me to ancient Greece and ancient Rome.
about what to do with the vacant property,
I was destined to be.
Needless to say, Waffle House did not hire me.
So in terms of having Asperger s, it can be viewed as a disadvantage,
and sometimes it is a real pain in the butt,
but it s also the opposite.
It s a gift, and it allows me to think innovatively.
At 19, I won a research competition for my research on coral reefs,
and I ended up speaking
at the UN Convention of Biological Diversity,
presenting this research.
(Applause)
Thank you.
(Applause)
And at 22, I m getting ready to graduate college,
and I am a co-founder of a biotech company called AutismSees.
(Applause)
Thank you.
(Applause)
But consider what I had to do to get here:
25 therapists, 11 misdiagnoses, and years of pain and trauma.
And see now, we tried to introduce
and I think there is: autism-assistive technology.
This technology could play an integral role
Oh my God, everybody can see I m stupid. I didn t get invited to the Christmas party! 
or ASD.
So, we made a section of the mammary gland of the mouse,
Saying the word God did not turn this volunteer into a Christian,
In addition to this, it tracks eye contact through camera
and simulates a public-speaking and job-interview experience.
And so maybe one day, Waffle House will hire me,
after practicing on it some more.
(Laughter)
And one of the great things is that I ve used Podium
to help me prepare for today, and it s been a great help.
But it s more than that.
There s more that can be done.
For people with ASD --
it has been speculated that many innovative scientists,
researchers, artists, and engineers have it;
to try and look about whether we could, in fact, involve
So it s dealing with the fact that if you have AIDS,
But the problem that s encountered
And he didn t just leave it,
And so, many people with autism are being overlooked every day,
and they re being taken advantage of.
So my dream for people with autism is to change that,
kind of histories of very challenging content,
in order to survive and prosper in the world.
I responded to a radio call of a possible
on stuff which your boss doesn t approve of, isn t in the strategy,
I am at peace.
I am free from judgment,
and so I can do whatever I want, you know?
I m making out with Brad Pitt, and Angelina is totally cool with it.
for connection.
But the goal of autism-assistive technology is bigger than that,
and more important.
My goal is to shift people s perspective
as large as the Earth s orbit,
in three months from now.
I mean, look at Temple Grandin, for example.
And by doing so, we allow people to share their talents with this world
and move this world forward.
And then, at two and a half,
in the real world, in real time.
Thank you.
(Applause)
Thank you.
that if you want to dispossess a people,
I want you to, for a moment,
and how to make a movement.
But for this pill to get to your head, where the pain is,
it goes through your stomach, intestines and various other organs first.
Swallowing pills is the most effective and painless way of delivering
any medication in the body.
The downside, though, is that swallowing any medication leads to its dilution.
he broke my neck.
When they take their anti-HIV drugs,
But they are also notorious for their adverse side effects,
but mostly bad, because they get diluted by the time they get to the blood,
and worse, by the time they get to the sites
where it matters most: within the HIV viral reservoirs.
These areas in the body -- such as the lymph nodes,
where the virus is sleeping,
and will not readily get delivered in the blood
of patients that are under consistent anti-HIV drugs therapy.
(Laughter)
the virus can awake and infect new cells in the blood.
Now, all this is a big problem in treating HIV with the current drug treatment,
which is a life-long treatment that must be swallowed by patients.
The biologist Lewis Wolpert believes
of visualizing a hypothesis.
without the risk of drug dilution? 
And in fact, in the late 1980s, the early 1990s,
Lasers, of course.
If they can be used for dentistry,
for diabetic wound-healing and surgery,
including transporting drugs into cells.
you re going to drink a cup of tea.
to poke or drill extremely tiny holes,
which open and close almost immediately in HIV-infected cells,
in order to deliver drugs within them.
 How is that possible?  you may ask.
Well, we shine a very powerful but super-tiny laser beam
Now today, we re starting to see robots in our lives.
while these cells are immersed in liquid containing the drug.
The laser pierces the cell, while the cell swallows the drug
in a matter of microseconds.
Before you even know it,
And that is that those museums are usually passive,
Now, we are currently testing this technology in test tubes
or in Petri dishes,
but the goal is to get this technology in the human body,
apply it in the human body.
Just laying there, eyes glazed over! 
Well, the answer is: through a three-headed device.
Using the first head, which is our laser,
we will make an incision in the site of infection.
Using the second head, which is a camera,
we meander to the site of infection.
Finally, using a third head, which is a drug-spreading sprinkler,
we deliver the drugs directly at the site of infection,
while the laser is again used to poke those cells open.
Well, this might not seem like much right now.
But one day, if successful, this technology can lead
to complete eradication of HIV in the body.
Yes. A cure for HIV.
Bonuses, commissions, their own reality show.
in our case, a cure lead by lasers.
Systems like the ones that we were creating on the fly
(Applause)
There s this quote by activist and punk rock musician Jello Biafra that I love.
He says,  Don t hate the media. Be the media. 
I m an artist.
and I like the power they hold.
And B, I hate them and I m terrified of the power they hold.
I remember watching, in 2003, an interview between Fox News host Tony Snow
and then-US Defense Secretary, Donald Rumsfeld.
was a song which people used to sing,
we moved to Botswana.
 Well, we re hear about our body counts,
It s actually Bitcoin.
And Rumsfeld s answer is,
 Well, we don t do body counts on other people. 
It s estimated that between 150,000 to one million Iraqis, civilians,
have died as a result of the US-led invasion in 2003.
That number is in stark contrast with the 4,486 US service members who died
during that same window of time.
and he spoke with great passion about his love of the ocean,
I wanted to create a monument for the individual civilians
who died as a result of the invasion.
Monuments to war, such as Maya Lin s Vietnam Memorial,
interact differently?
Very powerful and very one-sided.
I remember when I was a boy in school,
How does this happen?
We don t know the needs of the elderly, the mentally ill.
And we were told, if we wrote a really good letter,
the children who had died
we would get back more than just a simple formed letter as a reply.
come up with a policy, not after the fact, commenting
What looks like an everyday, yellow legal tablet of paper
is actually a monument to the individual Iraqi civilians
that died as a result of the US invasion.
 Notepad  is an act of protest and an act of commemoration
disguised as an everyday tablet of paper.
The lines of the paper, when magnified,
are revealed to be micro-printed text
that contains the details, the names, the dates and locations
of individual Iraqi civilians that died.
So, for the last 5 years, I ve been taking pads of this paper, tons of this stuff,
and smuggling it into the stationery supplies
Their contraception rate -- 29 percent.
(Laughter)
(Applause)
I don t have to tell you guys this is not the place to discuss how I did that.
(Laughter)
But also, I ve been meeting one-on-one with members and former members
Native American. Now I just want to change that guy s race.
And so, whenever I can, I meet with one of them,
and I share the project with them.
And last summer, I had the chance to meet
with former United States Attorney General and Torture Memo author, Alberto Gonzales.
(Video) Matt Kenyon: May I give this to you?
This is a special legal tablet.
It s actually part of an ongoing art project.
Alberto Gonzalez: This is a special legal pad?
The second is the nature of the virus.
but it s in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art; I m an artist.
MK: And all of the lines of the paper are actually --
AG: Are they going to disappear?
MK: No, they re micro-printed text
that contains the names of individual Iraqi civilians
who have died since the invasion of Iraq.
AG: Yeah. OK.
we should actually be cutting back on public spending
(Laughter)
and one question I have for the audience today is,
(Laughter)
and so day after day he was punished
There s an envelope.
And please open it.
The paper you re holding in your hand
contains the details of Iraqi civilians that died as result of the invasion.
I d like you to use this paper and write a member of government.
You can help to smuggle this civilian body count
into government archives.
The aircraft, while in flight,
and this is all across the world, of course --
every letter that is sent in is archived, filed and recorded.
Together, we can put this in the mailboxes and under the noses of people in power.
Everything that s sent in
eventually becomes part of the permanent archive of our government,
He found telemarketing work,
Tom Rielly: So, tell me Matt,
Matt Kenyon: I d just finished a project
that dealt with the US Coalition side of the war
which accumulated, in real time,
Look at the sky.
of US service members who had died overseas,
and each time the Department of Defense or CENTCOM released their data,
it would stab me in the arm.
And so, I became aware that there was a spectacle
associated with our own people who were dying overseas,
live out this phenomenon?
were the civilian casualties.
TR: Thank you so much.
MK: Thank you.
(Applause)
I was here four years ago,
a place with splendid vistas;
a place where you can drive just 20 minutes
how did that change during the last century?
I don t live there.
But I did journey on a 27,000-mile trip
for two years, to the fastest-growing and whitest counties in America.
What is a Whitopia?
I define Whitopia in three ways:
Secondly, the majority of that growth comes from white migrants.
And third, the Whitopia has an ineffable charm,
a pleasant look and feel,
(Laughter)
To learn how and why Whitopias are ticking,
I immersed myself for several months apiece in three of them:
first, St. George, Utah;
and third, Forsyth County, Georgia.
First stop, St. George -- a beautiful town of red rock landscapes.
In the 1850s, Brigham Young dispatched families to St. George
to grow cotton because of the hot, arid climate.
And so they called it Utah s Dixie, and the name sticks to this day.
never again.
I made detailed spreadsheets of all the power brokers in the communities,
who I needed to meet, where I needed to be,
and I threw myself with gusto in these communities.
So I ve connected myself into the speaker.
I went to poker nights.
In St. George, I rented a home at the Entrada,
one of the town s premier gated communities.
There were no Motel 6 s or Howard Johnsons for me.
I lived in Whitopia as a resident, and not like a visitor.
The spiral eddy that trails a paddle on a rafting trip.
(Laughter)
(Applause)
Golf is the perfect seductive symbol of Whitopia.
When I went on my journey,
I had barely ever held a golf club.
like a shell made of concrete
(Laughter)
Golf helps people bond.
And I remember walking through the halls
Where did this all begin?
that had no minority members.
I wish I d had the courage to express my true self.
(Laughter)
that use the light from the inside of the building
how to cast my line and what bait to use.
I also played poker every weekend.
It was Texas Hold  em with a $10 buy-in.
My poker mates may have been bluffing about the hands that they drew,
but they weren t bluffing about their social beliefs.
which in Chinese, by the way, means  the beautiful country. 
during my journey were at the poker table.
It was a shameful thing for him to carry the rest of his life.
I love to cook, I hosted many dinner parties, and in return,
And the purity of the music makes you hear it
and to their barbecues, and to their pool parties,
and to their birthday parties.
how radial they are -- all information that may not be
Immigration turned out to be a big issue in this Whitopia.
The St. George s Citizens Council on Illegal Immigration
held regular and active protests against immigration,
and so what I gleaned from this Whitopia is what a hot debate this would become.
It was a real-time preview, and so it has become.
Next stop: Almost Heaven, a cabin I rented for myself
When Sami Osmakac attempted to deliver what he thought
(Laughter)
So let s give this a try.
it s a gorgeous paradise for huntsmen, boatmen and fishermen.
I golfed with retired LAPD cops.
I m not criticizing this and I m not saying
fled Los Angeles after the L.A. racial unrest,
for North Idaho, and they ve built an expatriated community.
Given the conservatism of these cops,
So the second thing we learned, and this leads
In fact, it is said, North Idaho has more gun dealers than gas stations.
So what s a resident to do to fit in?
I hit the gun club.
When I rented a gun, the gentleman behind the counter
was perfectly pleasant and kind,
as we shared our innermost thoughts, our fears,
That s when he got nervous.
one of them might engage you more than anything else,
 I know my boyfriend s no good for me,
that can permeate a community when so many cops and guns are around.
In North Idaho, in my red pickup truck,
I kept a notepad.
And in that notepad I counted more Confederate flags than black people.
in different countries and at different times.
on key chains, on cellphone paraphernalia,
and on cars.
About a seven-minute drive from my hidden lake cabin
was the compound of Aryan Nations,
The entire project cost about 1.6 billion dollars,
America s Promise Ministries, the religious arm of Aryan Nations,
happened to have a three-day retreat during my visit.
So I decided to crash it.
(Laughter)
I m the only non-Aryan journalist I m aware of ever to have done so.
(Laughter)
Among the many memorable episodes of that retreat...
(Laughter)
gives us crucial information
No texting, no Twitter, no Facebook.
We don t think we re better than you,
we just want to be away from you. 
(Laughter)
Indeed, most white people in Whitopia are neither white supremacists
or white separatists;
in fact, they re not there for explicitly racial reasons at all.
as we started to progressively inject technology
That s not an improbable sample.
reasons that they implicitly associate to whiteness in itself.
Next stop was Georgia.
(Laughter)
In Utah, I found poker;
in Idaho, I found guns;
in Georgia, I found God.
If you want to change a person, change the situation.
and if you can t grow, you can t possibly solve large social problems.
was to become active at First Redeemer Church,
I did it for your own good.
to escort the congregants around its many parking lots on campus.
I was active in the youth ministry.
And for me, personally, I was more comfortable in this Whitopia
than say, in a Colorado, or an Idaho, or even a suburban Boston.
then there s no reason to believe
I was less exotic in this Whitopia.
(Laughter)
But what does it all mean?
Whitopian dreaming, Whitopia migration, is a push-pull phenomenon,
full of alarming pushes and alluring pulls,
and Whitopia operates at the level of conscious and unconscious bias.
It s possible for people to be in Whitopia not for racist reasons,
though it has racist outcomes.
Many Whitopians feel pushed by illegals,
social welfare abuse, minorities, density, crowded schools.
For me, it s all about looking at the Internet in an entirely new way,
freedom, the allure of privatism -- privatized places, privatized people,
privatized things.
We do everything we do, but it seems that driving while black,
without racists.
and take a look at what s outside.
couldn t believe I would go on such a venture.
And do you mind, can you take some cards and shuffle?
and that now you re seeing truly.
are vastly better than in my parents  generation.
Can you imagine me going to Whitopia 40 years ago?
take a picture, triangulate the location,
(Laughter)
And yet, some things haven t changed.
They often are people who have actually been faithful for decades,
So you re folding up, you re making yourself small.
As Americans, we often find ways to cook for each other,
to dance with each other,
to host with each other,
but why can t that translate into how we treat each other as communities?
It s a devastating irony,
how we have gone forward as individuals,
and backwards as communities.
One of the Whitopian outlooks that really hit me
was a proverbial saying:
Okay, maybe they don t think that they will make it
50 black men is a ghetto. 
One of the big contexts animating my Whitopian journey was the year 2042.
By 2042, white people will no longer be the American majority.
and drop it on the ground.
In looking at this,
like the prototype you see there,
and let me tell you that this was the first time
I ventured on my two-year, 27,000 mile journey
to learn where, why, and how white people are fleeing,
but I do think most people want to have some control
So now, you re going to follow the line all the way from B to E.
I don t expect I ll be living in a Whitopia --
or a Blacktopia, for that matter.
you can rearrange the parts, you can glue them
(Laughter)
And I ll just have to leave the guns and megachurches back in Whitopia.
but I don t think the ants can help us much with this
(Applause)
First, a video.
I ve been studying non-state armed groups:
armed organizations like terrorists, insurgents or militias.
this sight
My goal is to better understand these violent actors
and to study ways to encourage transition from violent engagement
to nonviolent confrontation.
I work in the field, in the policy world and in the library.
Understanding non-state armed groups is key to solving most ongoing conflict,
because war has changed.
It used to be a contest between states.
No longer.
For example, of the 216 peace agreements
signed between 1975 and 2011,
196 of them were between a state and a non-state actor.
So we need to understand these groups; we need to either engage them
(Laughter)
So how do we do that?
We need to know what makes these organizations tick.
but because the molecule that synchronizes them together can only travel so fast,
but no one looks at what they re doing when they re not fighting.
Yet, armed struggle and unarmed politics are related.
It is all part of the same organization.
We cannot understand these groups, let alone defeat them,
if we don t have the full picture.
And armed groups today are complex organizations.
Take the Lebanese Hezbollah,
figure out what is the best angle to take and what is the stuff that they want to hear.
But since its creation in the early 1980s,
Hezbollah has also set up a political party,
a social-service network, and a military apparatus.
Similarly, the Palestinian Hamas,
known for its suicide attacks against Israel,
also runs the Gaza Strip since 2007.
So these groups do way more than just shoot.
They multi-task.
They set up complex communication machines --
radio stations, TV channels,
Internet websites and social media strategies.
And up here, you have the ISIS magazine,
printed in English and published to recruit.
Armed groups also invest in complex fund-raising --
not looting, but setting up profitable businesses;
for example, construction companies.
Now, these activities are keys.
They allow these groups to increase their strength,
increase their funds,
to better recruit and to build their brand.
Armed groups also do something else:
they build stronger bonds with the population
by investing in social services.
They build schools, they run hospitals,
they set up vocational-training programs or micro-loan programs.
If you need surgery, you want to be operated on
Armed groups also seek to win the population over
was that we knew that all over the world,
safety and security.
it was a determining factor.
In fact, they did implode the factory.
Now, unfortunately, in these cases,
the provision of security came at an unbearably high price
But in general, providing social services fills a gap,
a governance gap left by the government,
and allows these groups to increase their strength
and their power.
For example, the 2006 electoral victory of the Palestinian Hamas
cannot be understood without acknowledging the group s social work.
Now, this is a really complex picture,
yet in the West, when we look at armed groups,
we only think of the violent side.
into our country as well, and 90 percent of this energy today
These groups are hybrid.
And although a lot of that is about energy,
and they emerge to be both armed and political,
engage in violent struggle and provide governance.
And the more these organizations are complex and sophisticated,
the less we can think of them as the opposite of a state.
Now, what do you call a group like Hezbollah?
as one of the few places where I could organize
they pick up the garbage, they run the sewage system.
Is this a state? Is it a rebel group?
And what about ISIS?
The lines are blurred.
We re working on the open-source tools
the more non-state actors step in and fill that gap.
This matters for governments, because to counter these groups,
they will have to invest more in non-military tools.
Filling that governance gap
or autistic people to try and make them this  normal, 
to shout out some random numbers. 
If we better understand armed groups,
we will better know what incentives to offer
to encourage the transition from violence to nonviolence.
is that because I m walking over the sea,
military power can win some battles,
but it will not give us peace nor stability.
of what Gabby Giffords was like growing up.
but if you go to an office
in filling that governance gap
that allowed these groups to thrive in the first place.
Thank you.
(Applause)
The most important thing to know about prehistoric humans
is that they were unimportant.
Their impact on the world was not much greater than that of jellyfish
or fireflies or woodpeckers.
Today, in contrast, we control this planet.
So today, computer viruses and trojans,
How did we come from there to here?
How did we turn ourselves from insignificant apes,
What happens, though, is people say to me,
Usually, we look for the difference between us and all the other animals
on the individual level.
We want to believe -- I want to believe --
that there is something special about me,
about my body, about my brain,
that makes me so superior to a dog or a pig, or a chimpanzee.
But the truth is that, on the individual level,
strange liquids that behave in very peculiar ways,
And if you take me and a chimpanzee and put us together on some lonely island,
and we had to struggle for survival to see who survives better,
Interesting idea.
And this is not something wrong with me personally.
it s probably because you didn t know what to look for --
with a chimpanzee on some island,
the chimpanzee would do much better.
is not on the individual level;
it s on the collective level.
I think this is a really important conversation
that can cooperate both flexibly and in very large numbers.
and then letting it cool down and solidifying in a certain state.
All the while, we also wanted to give back
It was dinnertime,
Their cooperation is very rigid.
not just high, record.
And, you know, it could have worked.
MT: So over here is low tide,
They cannot, for example, execute the queen
is 10,000 times more calculations.
or a communist dictatorship of worker bees.
Other animals, like the social mammals --
the wolves, the elephants, the dolphins, the chimpanzees --
they can cooperate much more flexibly,
but they do so only in small numbers,
because cooperation among chimpanzees
is based on intimate knowledge, one of the other.
I m a chimpanzee and you re a chimpanzee,
Asma was referring to the rise of religious fundamentalism in the region,
I need to know you personally.
don t buy products in bulk.
and that s why our full sense of self
Are you trustworthy?
If I don t know you, how can I cooperate with you?
The only animal that can combine the two abilities together
and cooperate both flexibly and still do so in very large numbers
is us, Homo sapiens.
One versus one, or even 10 versus 10,
chimpanzees might be better than us.
But, if you pit 1,000 humans against 1,000 chimpanzees,
They re sort of biological windows that light up
that a thousand chimpanzees cannot cooperate at all.
And if you now try to cram 100,000 chimpanzees
into Oxford Street, or into Wembley Stadium,
or Tienanmen Square or the Vatican,
Just imagine Wembley Stadium with 100,000 chimpanzees.
Complete madness.
In contrast, humans normally gather there in tens of thousands,
When I say  human trafficking, 
What we get is extremely sophisticated and effective networks of cooperation.
All the huge achievements of humankind throughout history,
was traveling folk theater that would come through the town
have been based not on individual abilities,
but on this ability to cooperate flexibly in large numbers.
Think even about this very talk that I m giving now:
I m standing here in front of an audience of about 300 or 400 people,
most of you are complete strangers to me.
Similarly, I don t really know all the people who have organized
and worked on this event.
I don t know the pilot and the crew members of the plane
that brought me over here, yesterday, to London.
I don t know the people who invented and manufactured
this microphone and these cameras, which are recording what I m saying.
I don t know the people who wrote all the books and articles
that I read in preparation for this talk.
somewhere in Buenos Aires or in New Delhi.
Nevertheless, even though we don t know each other,
we can work together to create this global exchange of ideas.
This is something chimpanzees cannot do.
in the space during different times of day.
but you will never catch a chimpanzee traveling to some distant chimpanzee band
to give them a talk about bananas or about elephants,
or anything else that might interest chimpanzees.
Now cooperation is, of course, not always nice;
well, it exists far beyond the shores of countries
discuss the ideas, plot revolution.
all those things are also based on large-scale cooperation.
Prisons are a system of cooperation;
slaughterhouses are a system of cooperation;
(Applause)
Chimpanzees don t have slaughterhouses and prisons and concentration camps.
I took this to those same teens, because those teens are
we control the world because we can cooperate flexibly in large numbers.
The next question that immediately arises
in the mind of an inquisitive listener is:
The laws have some sort of ontological power or clout
What enables us alone, of all the animals, to cooperate in such a way?
The answer is our imagination.
We can cooperate flexibly with countless numbers of strangers,
because we alone, of all the animals on the planet,
can create and believe fictions, fictional stories.
And as long as everybody believes in the same fiction,
everybody obeys and follows the same rules,
the same norms, the same values.
and we evolved a giant medical establishment
only to describe reality.
A chimpanzee may say,  Look! There s a lion, let s run away! 
Or,  Look! There s a banana tree over there! Let s go and get bananas! 
Humans, in contrast, use their language not merely to describe reality,
but also to create new realities, fictional realities.
A human can say,  Look, there is a god above the clouds!
With a flip of the switch you create a bubble around you
in serious places like, you know, the Large Hadron Collider.
then you will follow the same norms and laws and values,
and you can cooperate.
This is something only humans can do.
All of this superintelligence could develop, and possibly quite rapidly.
by promising him,  ... after you die, you ll go to chimpanzee heaven ... 
you don t fly.
 ... and you ll receive lots and lots of bananas for your good deeds.
from Britain, and I said,
No chimpanzee will ever believe such a story.
Only humans believe such stories,
which is why we control the world,
whereas the chimpanzees are locked up in zoos and research laboratories.
Now you may find it acceptable that yes,
It requires effort and investment,
Millions of people come together to build a cathedral or a mosque
or fight in a crusade or a jihad, because they all believe in the same stories
underlies all other forms of mass-scale human cooperation,
not only in the religious field.
Take, for example, the legal field.
Most legal systems today in the world are based on a belief in human rights.
But what are human rights?
Human rights, just like God and heaven, are just a story that we ve invented.
They are not an objective reality;
they are not some biological effect about homo sapiens.
Take a human being, cut him open, look inside,
you will find the heart, the kidneys, neurons, hormones, DNA,
with computers, only really slowly. (Laughter)
The only place you find rights are in the stories
that we have invented and spread around over the last few centuries.
They may be very positive stories, very good stories,
and then we are going to get the answer came for.
The same is true of the political field.
♪ And it s time for a man to put down roots ♪
But what are states and nations?
They are not an objective reality.
A mountain is an objective reality.
You can see it, you can touch it, you can ever smell it.
But a nation or a state,
like Israel or Iran or France or Germany,
this is just a story that we ve invented
and became extremely attached to.
The same is true of the economic field.
are companies and corporations.
Many of you today, perhaps, work for a corporation,
like Google or Toyota or McDonald s.
 I was handsome,  he said.
They are what lawyers call legal fictions.
They are stories invented and maintained
by the powerful wizards we call lawyers.
(Laughter)
And what do corporations do all day?
Mostly, they try to make money.
Yet, what is money?
Again, money is not an objective reality; it has no objective value.
fight, not on the playground,
Look at it -- it has no value.
You cannot eat it, you cannot drink it,
to the security lanes in airports.
But then came along these master storytellers --
the big bankers,
the finance ministers,
the prime ministers --
and they tell us a very convincing story:
they can now create something together.
It is actually worth 10 bananas. 
and everybody believes it,
it actually works.
I can take this worthless piece of paper,
I m going to use more vibrato
give it to a complete stranger whom I ve never met before,
and get, in exchange, real bananas which I can actually eat.
This is something amazing.
You could never do it with chimpanzees.
Chimpanzees trade, of course:
 Yes, you give me a coconut, I ll give you a banana. 
That can work.
But, you give me a worthless piece of paper
is not progress.
No way!
What do you think I am, a human?
and in the process, it dropped homicide by 70 percent in just over 10 years.
Money, in fact, is the most successful story
ever invented and told by humans,
because it is the only story everybody believes.
Not everybody believes in God,
not everybody believes in human rights,
not everybody believes in nationalism,
but everybody believes in money, and in the dollar bill.
What can I do?
He hated American politics and American religion
and American culture,
but he had no objection to American dollars.
He was quite fond of them, actually.
(Laughter)
We humans control the world because we live in a dual reality.
All other animals live in an objective reality.
Their reality consists of objective entities,
to get good clinical outcomes.
there s something wrong with you,
In our world, too, there are rivers and trees and lions and elephants.
But over the centuries,
we have constructed on top of this objective reality
a reality made of fictional entities,
like nations, like gods, like money, like corporations.
And what is amazing is that as history unfolded,
this fictional reality became more and more powerful
so that today, the most powerful forces in the world
are these fictional entities.
Today, the very survival of rivers and trees and lions and elephants
depends on the decisions and wishes of fictional entities,
 My printer prints a blank page after every document. 
And she kind of looked down the list, and she said,
Thank you.
(Applause)
Bruno Giussani: Yuval, you have a new book out.
After Sapiens, you wrote another one,
Adrianne lost her left leg in the Boston terrorist attack.
Yuval Noah Harari: I m working on the translation as we speak.
I ve had enough hearing about competitive countries.
you argue that the amazing breakthroughs that we are experiencing right now
not only will potentially make our lives better,
but they will create -- and I quote you --
 ... new classes and new class struggles, just as the industrial revolution did. 
Can you elaborate for us?
YNH: Yes. In the industrial revolution,
from around the world that are studying that topic,
And much of the political and social history of the last 200 years involved
what to do with this class, and the new problems and opportunities.
Now, we see the creation of a new massive class of useless people.
(Laughter)
As computers become better and better in more and more fields,
there is a distinct possibility that computers will out-perform us
in most tasks and will make humans redundant.
of the 21st century will be,
 What do we need humans for? ,
or at least,  What do we need so many humans for? 
YNH: At present, the best guess we have is to keep them happy
And he d tell me how he s leaving his wife,
(Laughter)
but this doesn t sound like a very appealing future.
that both society and its lawyers
that for all the discussion about the growing evidence
of significant economic inequality, we are just kind of at the beginning
of the process?
YNH: Again, it s not a prophecy;
it s seeing all kinds of possibilities before us.
One possibility is this creation of a new massive class of useless people.
Another possibility is the division of humankind
into different biological castes,
with the rich being upgraded into virtual gods,
and the poor being degraded to this level of useless people.
BG: I feel there is another TED talk coming up in a year or two.
YNH: Thanks!
you filed a criminal complaint
We re going to begin in 1964.
in my hometown of Gabés, in the south of Tunisia,
I never thought that graffiti would bring so much attention to a city.
At the beginning, I was just looking for a wall in my hometown,
when anyone could become a storyteller in front of the dancing flames.
And for 18 years, those 57 meters of concrete stayed grey.
When I met the imam for the first time, and I told him what I wanted to do,
he was like,  Thank God you finally came, 
and he told me that for years he was waiting for somebody
to do something on it.
The most amazing thing about this imam is that he didn t ask me anything --
neither a sketch, or what I was going to write.
In every work that I create, I write messages
with my style of calligraffiti -- a mix of calligraphy and graffiti.
I use quotes or poetry.
For the minaret, I thought that the most relevant message
so I picked this verse:
 Oh humankind, we have created you from a male and a female,
and made you people and tribe, so you may know each other. 
It was a universal call for peace, tolerance, and acceptance
coming from the side that we don t usually portray in a good way in the media.
I was amazed to see how the local community reacted to the painting,
and how it made them proud to see the minaret getting so much attention
from international press all around the world.
For the imam, it was not just the painting;
it was really deeper than that.
and there is no amount of free face painting or temporary tattoos
and attract people to this forgotten place of Tunisia.
The universality of the message,
that are good at bringing our talents to bear,
and the fact that I was writing Quran in a graffiti way
were not insignificant.
we re looking at your bloodstream,
Bringing people, future generations,
but out of your cells.
What is funny, actually, is that even Arabic-speaking people
So I d like you to image a mining industry
You don t need to know the meaning to feel the piece.
I think that Arabic script touches your soul before it reaches your eyes.
Arabic script speaks to anyone, I believe;
to you, to you, to you, to anybody,
and then when you get the meaning,
you feel connected to it.
I always make sure to write messages
and the other is through a handheld camera.
but messages that have a universal dimension,
so anybody around the world can connect to it.
and the tsunami in Japan.
and I started learning how to write and read Arabic when I was 18.
and particularly in the developing world, it s where women find opportunities.
One of the reasons this is so important to me,
is because of all the reaction that I ve experienced all around the world.
But there s a problem with this,
and this is the first fact I just talked about.
It was about giving us the luxury of time
The local community were really intrigued by what I was doing,
but as soon as I gave them the meaning of the calligraphy,
they thanked me, as they felt connected to the piece.
In South Africa, in Cape Town,
the local community of Philippi
offered me the only concrete wall of the slum.
It was a school, and I wrote on it
a quote from Nelson Mandela,
saying,  [in Arabic], 
which means,  It seems impossible until it s done. 
Then this guy came to me and said,  Man, why you don t write in English? 
and I replied to him,  I would consider your concern legit if you asked me
why I didn t write in Zulu. 
In Paris, once, there was this event,
And when he saw I was painting in Arabic,
he got so mad -- actually, hysterical -- and he asked for the wall to be erased.
I was mad and disappointed.
everything.
Maybe, to really be happy, we need to stay completely
So, this guy --
(Laughter)
like, was forced to see it every day.
At the beginning, I was going to write,  [In Arabic], 
which means,  In your face,  but --
accelerated expansion a name,
but very quickly distinct things begin to appear in that blur.
which means,  Open your heart. 
I m really proud of my culture,
and I m trying to be an ambassador of it through my artwork.
And I hope that I can break the stereotypes we all know,
with the beauty of Arabic script.
Today, I don t write the translation of the message anymore on the wall.
I don t want the poetry of the calligraphy to be broken,
as it s art and you can appreciate it without knowing the meaning,
as you can enjoy any music from other countries.
Some people see that as a rejection or a closed door,
but for me, it s more an invitation --
to my language, to my culture, and to my art.
Thank you.
(Applause)
are connected to each other through the Internet
So my father might not understand what it is that I do for a living.
actually, this will go easier if I just put it up here --
through poetry.
that the Rwandan genocide
Decades later, Rand McNally releases a map
how hundreds of thousands of people
Well, you can imagine the delight over at General Drafting.
So I m going to tell you about one of the projects we ve been working on,
Because people kept going to that intersection of two dirt roads --
that I felt I had to say something about it.
was really a celebration
It s easy enough to say that the world shapes our maps of the world, right?
But what I find a lot more interesting is the way
Now for this, I needed a different craft:
The world is changed by our maps of the world.
So they ve got great government finances, great private sector debt.
in his State of the Union address in 2003
you ve got to go 1,000 times as far as that,
Their bodies are chopped up with machetes
the same techniques that Cicero had used to memorize his speeches,
and changed the project goals and design.
from which they could tweet
I heard about a call coming in of a 70-year-old man
We weren t anywhere close to the top,
They literally put nooses on themselves,
That s not a recipe for a happy life.
(Music)
And then, when I was in tenth grade, I went to this school,
There they are in the school fields, but it s good and evil,
bizarre, intractable delusions.
highly jet-lagged, not feeling their finest.
that were literally built hundreds of years
I learned that correlation shouldn t be confused with causation --
are using sanitary pads. The rest, they re using a rag cloth,
Why do so many men rape other men?
It s, you know, sailing upon some land, and thinking,
Allow me to help you answer this question.
But a lot of the learning that I did in high school
I went to the hospital library.
And along the way, the map of my life got better.
There were two big reasons why our campaign had failed big time.
It wasn t a formal, organized learning process,
Mike was driving from Petaluma to San Francisco
that some infinite sets are larger than other infinite sets,
but I start by assuming the worst will happen.
some self that experiences them.
And then I wrote a book.
if you really don t want the distracted teenager behind you
Having that criminal record makes it so much more difficult
of trying to better understand and map the world around us.
His name is Ze Frank.
Ze Frank was running, at the time, a show called  The Show with Ze Frank, 
we gotta make this sexy.
But let me warn you, this is not just about Greece.
Look at the worldview you ve given yourself.
and that seems to be about as much as they can do.
of what happened in American corporate life,
in movement rules at the individual level
I realize that these are silly ideas, but they are also  learny  ideas,
and that was what was so exciting to me,
and infrastructure, how do we prioritize the relocation?
Cooperative development is a way forward.
In World War II, there were many stories
meaning Harvard, Princeton, MIT, Stanford, Berkeley,
In particular, the Higgs field helps explain why it s so weak.
So you can see in a system like this
On the question of is the U.S. containing China,
I accumulated a lot of money when I think about it.
We are ready.
there is a problem in our community with lack of opportunity,
(Video) So you re me, and you re in math class yet again,
I m proud to tell you,
is being practiced by doctors whose patients aren t human.
I don t like being patient when systems are broken,
They all have more than half a million views on YouTube.
And I said earlier that YouTube is like a classroom to me,
This is a huge collaboration.
It says we don t have a right to our bodies.
She s been responsible for
And I know that we all hearken back
frustrated, frustrated, overwhelmed, depressed.
and was a part of the air police squadron.
which affects more than 50,000 people
cat psychologist, dog whisperer, tornado chaser. 
A couple of seconds later, he asked me,
 So what do you do? 
And I was like,  Peacebuilder? 
Every day, I work to amplify the voices of women
and to highlight their experiences
[ Give Your Talk: A Musical ] (Music)
and because of my work,
I recognize that the only way to ensure the full participation of women globally
is by reclaiming religion.
Now, this matter is vitally important to me.
As a young Muslim woman, I am very proud of my faith.
It gives me the strength and conviction to do my work every day.
And it s that choice that I want to focus on,
not just my own, but all of the world s major faiths.
which means a spirit that comes back
has influenced our social and cultural norms,
our laws, our daily lives,
to a point where we sometimes don t recognize it.
I sort of lived with this idea that when I m grown,
and I am the middle child of 11 children.
Yes, 11.
of how widespread they are in animals.
both religiously devout and spiritual people,
that I can possibly make.
namely me of course, but among others. (Laughter)
They were kind and funny and patient,
In the North, the boreal is bordered by the tundra,
And they were fair.
I was never subjected to religion through a cultural lens.
I was treated the same,
the same was expected of me.
I said,  Sure, we ll come in. 
and provider shaped the way I looked at the world.
So when I got to graduate school,
To this day, I am asked where I went to school,
like,  Did you go to Kennedy School of Government? 
and I look at them and I m like,  No,
It s extremely exclusive. You would have to talk to my mom to get in.
Lucky for you, she s here.
teaches you a lot about power structures and alliances.
went to his grandfather when he was very young,
You have to ask questions in the right way to get the answers you know you want,
and you have to say no in the right way to keep the peace.
was the importance of being at the table.
When my mom s favorite lamp broke, I had to be there when she was trying
to find out how and by who, because I had to defend myself,
(Exhales)
and before you know it, you will be grounded.
and here it is again:
When I was 15 in 2005, I completed high school and I moved
from Canada -- Saskatoon --
a very traditional city.
Also, they make a reasonable return,
and as a seven-year-old girl, it was magic.
It was ice cream and trips to the beach and really excited relatives.
I very quickly became introduced to the cultural aspect of religion.
and his colleagues at Harvard.
and  aib  -- meaning culturally inappropriate --
were exchanged carelessly,
as if they meant the same thing and had the same consequences.
And I found myself in conversation after conversation with classmates
with British adolescents.
beginning to question my own role and my own aspirations.
And even with the foundation my parents had provided for me,
I found myself questioning the role of women in my faith.
literally took their research to the streets.
who were innovative, who were strong --
So why weren t we learning about her?
Why weren t we learning about these women?
It was oxygen. I was lucky enough to have studied
who has suffered a severe trauma,
and they spend less time thinking about food.
bring peace and national reconciliation?
is sitting at the table,
and unfortunately, in every single world faith,
they are not women.
Religious institutions are dominated by men
and driven by male leadership,
and they create policies in their likeness,
and until we can change the system entirely,
the junior woodchucks like me.
In 2011, the Libyan revolution broke out, and my family was on the front lines.
And there s this amazing thing that happens in war,
a cultural shift almost, very temporary.
and see how she reacts.
It was demanded.
Myself and other women had a seat at the table.
We weren t holding hands or a medium.
While he was there, he traveled to Madrid,
Fair enough.
Similarly, using a randomized control trial in rural Pakistan,
Of course, criminals can respond.
yes, let s try and resolve the politics there in the Middle East,
minor monarchy, democracy is a thing of value
most of whom cited religious scripture as their defense.
I thought that would lead to cultural and social change.
It turns out, it does a little, but not a lot.
I decided to use their defense as my offense,
and it would also increase the quality.
In 2012 and 2013, my organization led the single largest
in order to actually tell that story.
We spoke to 50,000 people directly,
and hundreds of thousands more through billboards and television commercials,
radio commercials and posters.
And you re probably wondering how a women s rights organization
I used verses from the Quran and sayings of the Prophet,
both on energy —
and help us go further than we ever knew we could go.
 Do not let your brother oppress another. 
For the first time, Friday sermons led by local community imams
promoted the rights of women.
Policies were changed.
as saying the International Human Rights Declaration,
well, those same principles are in our book.
So really, the United Nations just copied us.
and while I am not saying it s easy -- believe me, it s not.
Liberals will say you re using religion and call you a bad conservative.
Conservatives will call you a lot of colorful things.
I ve heard everything from,  Your parents must be extremely ashamed of you  --
false; they re my biggest fans --
to  You will not make it to your next birthday  --
again wrong, because I did.
a very strong believer that women s rights and religion are not mutually exclusive.
But we have to be at the table.
We have to stop giving up our position, because by remaining silent,
we allow for the continued persecution and abuse of women worldwide.
and fight extremism with bombs and warfare,
we completely cripple local societies which need to address these issues
so that they re sustainable.
You will have your fair share of insults and ridicule and threats.
Grey Poupon came along, with a Dijon.
not for us, not for the women in your families,
not for the women in this room,
not even for the women out there,
but for societies that would be transformed
And the only way we can do that,
our only option,
is to be, and remain, at the table.
This is probably the saddest sound
In the early days of Twitter, it was like a place of radical de-shaming.
As my New Year s resolution,
and other people would say,  Oh my God, I m exactly the same. 
Voiceless people realized that they had a voice,
and it was powerful and eloquent.
If a newspaper ran some racist or homophobic column,
we realized we could do something about it.
We could get them.
We could hit them with a weapon that we understood but they didn t --
Advertisers would withdraw their advertising.
When powerful people misused their privilege,
about engagement
but need hugs.
Hierarchies were being leveled out.
We were going to do things better.
Soon after that, a disgraced pop science writer called Jonah Lehrer --
he d been caught plagiarizing and faking quotes,
like some Earthlings.
And he had the opportunity
to publicly apologize at a foundation lunch.
This was going to be the most important speech of his life.
Maybe it would win him some salvation.
So for example, have you ever noticed
that the foundation was going to be live-streaming his event,
but what he didn t know until he turned up,
was that they d erected a giant screen Twitter feed right next to his head.
(Laughter)
then we can do something
I don t think the foundation did this because they were monstrous.
I think they were clueless: I think this was a unique moment
when the beautiful naivety of Twitter
was hitting the increasingly horrific reality.
And here were some of the Tweets that were cascading into his eye line,
as he was trying to apologize:
 Jonah Lehrer, boring us into forgiving him. 
(Laughter)
And,  Jonah Lehrer has not proven that he is capable of feeling shame. 
That one must have been written by the best psychiatrist ever,
to know that about such a tiny figure behind a lectern.
And,  Jonah Lehrer is just a frigging sociopath. 
That last word is a very human thing to do, to dehumanize the people we hurt.
It s because we want to destroy people but not feel bad about it.
Imagine if this was an actual court,
and secretly I kind of thought I might be able to learn how to fly,
and the jury was yelling out,
 Bored! Sociopath! 
(Laughter)
So, how do you find a buried city
with the kindhearted defense attorney,
but give us the power, and we become like hanging judges.
but they just needed to know what was happening out in the forest.
We were getting Jonah because he was perceived to have misused his privilege,
but Jonah was on the floor then, and we were still kicking,
so they could access our loans.
And it began to feel weird and empty when there wasn t a powerful person
who had misused their privilege that we could get.
A day without a shaming began to feel like a day
but the material itself suggests a landscape as well.
Let me tell you a story.
It s about a woman called Justine Sacco.
She was a PR woman from New York with 170 Twitter followers,
and she d Tweet little acerbic jokes to them,
like this one on a plane from New York to London:
[Weird German Dude: You re in first class. It s 2014. Get some deodorant. 
-Inner monologue as inhale BO. Thank god for pharmaceuticals.]
So Justine chuckled to herself, and pressed send, and got no replies,
and felt that sad feeling that we all feel
when the Internet doesn t congratulate us for being funny.
(Laughter)
all of us who use telecommunications and the Internet.
And then she got to Heathrow, and she had a little time to spare
before her final leg, so she thought up another funny little acerbic joke:
[Going to Africa. Hope I don t get AIDS. Just kidding. I m white!]
And she chuckled to herself, pressed send, got on the plane, got no replies,
woke up 11 hours later,
So if it worked better for traffic, if it was better for mobility,
and straightaway there was a message from somebody
that she hadn t spoken to since high school,
that said,  I am so sorry to see what s happening to you. 
And then another message from a best friend,
 You need to call me right now.
You are the worldwide number one trending topic on Twitter. 
the more he or she is afraid
What had happened is that one of her 170 followers had sent the Tweet
to a Gawker journalist, and he retweeted it to his 15,000 followers:
[And now, a funny holiday joke from IAC s PR boss]
And then it was like a bolt of lightning.
A few weeks later, I talked to the Gawker journalist.
So now my obsession is printing,
And then he said,  But I m sure she s fine. 
But she wasn t fine, because while she slept,
Twitter took control of her life and dismantled it piece by piece.
First there were the philanthropists:
but he was a window into the extent to which our memories make us who we are.
join me in supporting @CARE s work in Africa.]
so this mistake actually led us to think that
that I still wanted to meet Abed,
Did Justine s joke overwhelm your Twitter feed the way it did mine?
It did mine, and I thought what everybody thought that night,
which was,  Wow, somebody s screwed!
Somebody s life is about to get terrible! 
And I sat up in my bed,
as the observer, after the observation.
and then I thought, I m not entirely sure that joke was intended to be racist.
Maybe instead of gleefully flaunting her privilege,
she was mocking the gleeful flaunting of privilege.
On the other hand, I had played the violin my entire life.
like South Park or Colbert or Randy Newman.
Maybe Justine Sacco s crime was not being as good at it as Randy Newman.
In fact, when I met Justine a couple of weeks later in a bar,
she was just crushed,
You see, the Netherlands is kind of the biggest of the small group.
and she said,  Living in America puts us in a bit of a bubble
when it comes to what is going on in the Third World.
I was making of fun of that bubble. 
You know, another woman on Twitter that night, a New Statesman writer Helen Lewis,
she reviewed my book on public shaming and wrote that she Tweeted that night,
 I m not sure that her joke was intended to be racist, 
and she said straightaway she got a fury of Tweets saying,
 Well, you re just a privileged bitch, too. 
And so to her shame, she wrote,
she shut up and watched as Justine s life got torn apart.
You know, one of the things that you probably are thinking about,
and since most, a very big part of the Internet traffic today is encrypted,
Then came the calls for her to be fired.
[Good luck with the job hunt in the new year. #GettingFired]
It s a mathematical model,
Even a building made in paper
is,  my lawyer will be calling you
on the back of Justine s annihilation:
[Next time you plan to tweet something stupid before you take off,
make sure you are getting on a @Gogo flight!]
(Laughter)
A lot of companies were making good money that night.
You know, Justine s name was normally Googled 40 times a month.
That month, between December the 20th and the end of December,
using villagers, demonstrated that they could deliver
And what is worse,
somewhere between 120,000 dollars and 468,000 dollars
from Justine s annihilation, whereas those of us doing the actual shaming --
speaks to items one and two on the checklist:
(Laughter)
We were like unpaid shaming interns for Google.
she brought a handbag along as a wedding present.
the fire in their belly, the passion for the work, to make it.
[I m actually kind of hoping Justine Sacco gets aids? lol]
Somebody else on that wrote,
 Somebody HIV-positive should rape this bitch and then we ll find out
if her skin color protects her from AIDS. 
And that person got a free pass.
We were all so excited about destroying Justine,
And that s a true  sí se puede  moment.
that we couldn t also handle destroying somebody
But basically it s when there is novelty.
and the impact those have on our behaviors,
from philanthropists to  rape the bitch. 
[@JustineSacco I hope you get fired! You demented bitch...
Just let the world know you re planning to ride bare back while in Africa.]
Women always have it worse than men.
When a man gets shamed, it s,  I m going to get you fired. 
When a woman gets shamed, it s,
 I m going to get you fired and raped and cut out your uterus. 
And then Justine s employers got involved:
[IAC on @JustineSacco tweet: This is an outrageous, offensive comment.
Employee in question currently unreachable on an intl flight.]
And that s when the anger turned to excitement:
[All I want for Christmas is to see @JustineSacco s face when her plane lands
and she checks her inbox/voicemail. #fired]
[Oh man, @justinesacco is going to have the most painful
phone-turning-on moment ever when her plane lands.]
[We are about to watch this @JustineSacco bitch get fired. In REAL time.
He led me to a house of cream stucco, then drove off.
What we had was a delightful narrative arc.
We knew something that Justine didn t.
Can you think of anything less judicial than this?
Justine was asleep on a plane and unable to explain herself,
and her inability was a huge part of the hilarity.
On Twitter that night, we were like toddlers crawling towards a gun.
Somebody worked out exactly which plane she was on, so they linked
to a flight tracker website.
that is the most difficult step.
A hashtag began trending worldwide:
# hasJustineLandedYet?
[It is kinda wild to see someone self-destruct
weeks before that song made it to number one,
[Seriously. I just want to go home to go to bed, but everyone at the bar
is SO into #HasJustineLandedYet. Can t look away. Can t leave.]
[#HasJustineLandedYet may be the best thing to happen to my Friday night.]
[Is no one in Cape Town going to the airport to tweet her arrival?
Come on, twitter! I d like pictures]
And guess what? Yes there was.
[@JustineSacco HAS in fact landed at Cape Town international.
And if you want to know what it looks like to discover
that you ve just been torn to shreds because of a misconstrued liberal joke,
(Laughter)
that okay, yes, this might be going on,
[... She s decided to wear sunnies as a disguise.]
So why did we do it?
I think some people were genuinely upset,
And why the ant was doing it was because its brain had been infected
it s because Twitter is basically a mutual approval machine.
We surround ourselves with people who feel the same way we do,
So I said to my mom,
and that s a really good feeling.
There are two billion young people between 15 and 30.
And do you know what that s the opposite of?
It s the opposite of democracy.
We wanted to show that we cared about people dying of AIDS in Africa.
Our desire to be seen to be compassionate is what led us to commit
this profoundly un-compassionate act.
As Meghan O Gieblyn wrote in the Boston Review,
 This isn t social justice. It s a cathartic alternative. 
For the past three years,
I ve been going around the world meeting people like Justine Sacco --
There s more every day.
And we want to think they re fine, but they re not fine.
and around our world.
They talked to me about depression,
and anxiety and insomnia and suicidal thoughts.
One woman I talked to, who also told a joke that landed badly,
she stayed home for a year and a half.
Before that, she worked with adults with learning difficulties,
and was apparently really good at her job.
and I hadn t seen him for 30-odd years,
But it was worse than that.
She was losing herself.
She was waking up in the middle of the night, forgetting who she was.
She was got because she was perceived to have misused her privilege.
is shaped more by their own country s culture and context
we used to get people for, like having children out of wedlock.
But the phrase  misuse of privilege  is becoming a free pass
to tear apart pretty much anybody we choose to.
and the process of coming together once a month at a meeting
and it s making us lose our capacity for empathy
and for distinguishing between serious and unserious transgressions.
Justine had 170 Twitter followers, and so to make it work,
it s not even funny.
Word got around that she was the daughter the mining billionaire Desmond Sacco.
[Let us not be fooled by #JustineSacco her father is a SA mining billionaire.
She s not sorry. And neither is her father.]
I thought that was true about Justine,
until I met her at a bar, and I asked her about her billionaire father,
and she said,  My father sells carpets. 
And I think back on the early days of Twitter,
when people would admit shameful secrets about themselves,
and other people would say,  Oh my God, I m exactly the same. 
These days, the hunt is on for people s shameful secrets.
You can lead a good, ethical life,
but some bad phraseology in a Tweet can overwhelm it all,
become a clue to your secret inner evil.
Maybe there s two types of people in the world:
those people who favor humans over ideology,
and those people who favor ideology over humans.
(Applause)
but right now, the ideologues are winning,
and they re creating a stage for constant artificial high dramas
where everybody s either a magnificent hero
or a sickening villain,
even though we know that s not true about our fellow humans.
What s true is that we are clever and stupid;
what s true is that we re grey areas.
The great thing about social media was how it gave a voice
to voiceless people,
but we re now creating a surveillance society,
where the smartest way to survive is to go back to being voiceless.
Now, what does all this mean?
(Applause)
17th of May, 2013, just two weeks ago,
Jon Ronson: Thanks, Bruno.
Good on him, Barney.
is also the fact that if you Google her name today,
this story covers the first 100 pages of Google results --
there is nothing else about her.
In your book, you mention another story
of another victim who actually got taken on by a reputation management firm,
and by creating blogs and posting nice, innocuous stories about her love for cats
and holidays and stuff, managed to get the story
off the first couple pages of Google results, but it didn t last long.
A couple of weeks later, they started creeping back up to the top result.
Is this a totally lost battle?
Jon Ronson: You know, I think the very best thing we can do,
if you see a kind of unfair or an ambiguous shaming,
CA: What just happened there? We just saw something land?
was that nobody supported her -- like, everyone was against her,
and that is profoundly traumatizing,
to be told by tens of thousands of people that you need to get out.
But if a shaming happens and there s a babble of voices, like in a democracy,
where people are discussing it, I think that s much less damaging.
So I think that s the way forward,
but it s hard, because if you do stand up for somebody,
it s incredibly unpleasant.
BG: So let s talk about your experience,
because you stood up by writing this book.
By the way, it s mandatory reading for everybody, okay?
You stood up because the book actually puts the spotlight on shamers.
And I assume you didn t only have friendly reactions on Twitter.
JR: It didn t go down that well with some people.
(Laughter)
I mean, you don t want to just concentrate --
because lots of people understood, and were really nice about the book.
But yeah, for 30 years I ve been writing stories about abuses of power,
to an agricultural model,
or in the pharmaceutical industry, everybody applauds me.
As soon as I say,  We are the powerful people abusing our power now, 
I get people saying,  Well you must be a racist too. 
BG: So the other night -- yesterday -- we were at dinner,
and there were two discussions going on.
(Applause)
and that was a nice, constructive discussion.
On the other, every time you turned to your phone,
there is this deluge of insults.
JR: Yeah. This happened last night. We had like a TED dinner last night.
We were chatting and it was lovely and nice, and I decided to check Twitter.
Somebody said,  You are a white supremacist. 
And then I went back and had a nice conversation with somebody,
and then I went back to Twitter,
somebody said my very existence made the world a worse place.
My friend Adam Curtis says
that maybe the Internet is like a John Carpenter movie from the 1980s,
when eventually everyone will start screaming at each other
and shooting each other, and then eventually everybody
would flee to somewhere safer,
and I m starting to think of that as a really nice option.
BG: Jon, thank you. JR: Thank you, Bruno.
(Applause)
massively multiplayer thumb-wrestling.
Of all my sculptures, it s the most talkative.
and I started using the tools that are available to me as a filmmaker
More seriously, insects are essential.
The dinner plate by which material falls onto the black hole
And since I study human decision making,
So in a way, I ve created sort of a genetic network,
Insects seem like they do everything that people do.
But what drives their behaviors is really different than what drives our own,
It s a very powerful principle.
♪ Shining through ♪
But heavy artillery is nothing new in terrorist operations.
and dreamed it and imagined it.
a futuristic film anymore, so I just couldn t do that. Right?
In all their simplicity,
I m looking for one key piece,
And then Carrie reads all the books in the original Greek and Latin,
something like negation,
I m changing the motto now,
The white blob is the sperm,
(Laughter) MM: (Laughs) So, it s not magic.
from wringing tiny savings
to offer help to another person,
so that we can monitor the electrical activity
but, in fact, they are important for what they can do.
to repurpose one set of vessels, the blood vessels,
he immediately saw that there was a problem with the making of forged documents.
You know, the theme today is  The World In Your Grasp. 
to teach them what it s going to be like for them
as a sex partner.
they re the males.
under this new regime of thinking computers.
Every time I would go back,
very confidently,  The teddy bear
And so this is what I want to emphasize that,
the story that will make headlines,
Something totally new has been created here
and an impetus, to, say,
85 percent of phosphorus is lost in the soil,
and I have learned to live without his need of me.
This back here was my brain cancer.
Isn t it nice?
how their designs have the capacity
as much as possible?
that when they speak, people don t listen to them.
(Applause)
Having brain cancer was really, as you can imagine,
And there were crickets and birds and frogs making noise,
Pay-as-you-go was a technology, or an idea,
Some of those reforms have been good.
it s as if you disappear in a way.
Your life as a complex human being is replaced by medical data:
Your images, your exams, your lab values,
a list of medicines.
as living amongst and documenting the lives
You suddenly become a disease on legs.
Doctors start speaking a language which you don t understand.
They start pointing their fingers
at your body and your images.
People start changing as well
because they start dealing with the disease,
instead of with the human being.
with the Science and Technology Council
before even saying,  Hello. 
And in the meanwhile,
of American democracy.
These are the  Can I?  questions:
Can I work while I have cancer?
is usually an emotional approach to its surroundings.
And you wonder,  What have I done to deserve this? 
You wonder,  Can I change something about my lifestyle? 
You wonder,  Can I do something?
Are there any other options? 
And, obviously, doctors are the good guys in all these scenarios,
We call it Matternet.
so I d say that they sometimes lose the idea that this is torture for you
and that you become, literally, a patient --
 patient  means  the one who waits. 
(Laughter)
they tend to not engage you in any way to learn about your condition,
to get your friends and family engaged,
because if you get good at this game,
So they use GPS and other sensors on board
and then she would eat fruit snacks
While I was in the hospital,
that would collect information from its environment
and I spoke with it.
a new one last week?
I talked to it and I said,
and I shared it over a social network.
a family that owned 2,000 hives of bees in New Mexico.
A cure, whichever it is, will have to deal with the whole of me. 
And so, the next day, I left the hospital against medical advice.
I was determined to change my relationship with the cancer
and why single notes of music,
before doing anything as drastic as a surgery.
I m an artist, I use several forms of open-source technologies
and open information in my practice.
So my best bet was to get it all out there, get the information out there,
and use it so that it could be accessed by anyone.
So I created a website, which is called La Cura,
on which I put my medical data, online.
and so the pursuit of this crazy passion of mine
and that s a thing which we can talk about in another speech.
Two hours to install one of our devices,
I chose this word, La Cura --
La Cura in Italian means  the cure  --
because in many different cultures,
the word  cure  can mean many different things.
In our Western cultures,
it means eradicating or reversing a disease,
but in different cultures,
for example, a culture from Asia,
who want to bring about change,
it can mean many more things.
Of course, I was interested in the opinions of doctors
and healthcare providers,
the scariest part is that after a while,
even at the early stages,
of, who knows, the musicians.
on me, and here s part of what I m saying.
I was interested in the psychological cure,
I was interested in the spiritual cure,
This is considered the Five Blessings.
I was interested in any form of cure.
And, it worked.
The La Cura website went viral.
A monkey trying to fish another monkey from above.
and I quickly received more than 500,000 contacts --
most of them were a suggestion on how to cure my cancer,
but more of them were about how to cure myself
as a full individual.
For example, many thousands of videos,
images, pictures, art performances
were produced for La Cura.
For example, here we see Francesca Fini in her performance.
Or, as artist Patrick Lichty has done:
He produced a 3D sculpture of my tumor
for the structure of matter.
Now you can have my cancer, too!
(Laughter)
Which is a nice thing, if you think about it,
we can share our cancer.
any fly behaviors that might exhibit some of those properties.
scientists, the traditional medicine experts,
And I failed a lot.
all connected with me to give advice.
So when we met, Chuck was a senior in high school.
our femto-camera -- it has some unique abilities.
traditional doctors,
oncologists, and several hundred volunteers
with whom I was able to discuss
the information I was receiving, which is very important.
And together, we were able to form a strategy for my own cure
in many languages, according to many cultures.
And the current strategy spans the whole world
and thousands of years of human history,
In some fragile cities,
It s that they have violated the very definition of leadership.
So I was able to take my time and choose.
I am a meritocrat in that sense.
I chose the hospital I wanted to stay in,
and in the meanwhile, I was supported by thousands of people,
none of whom felt pity for me.
Everyone felt like they could take an active role
and this was the most important part of La Cura.
What are the outcomes?
I m fine, as you can see, pretty fine.
(Applause)
I had excellent news
We made over one billion house calls.
I have -- I had a very low-grade glioma,
which is a  good  kind of cancer which doesn t grow a lot.
a kind of gentleman s club
Everything I did was thoughtfully designed to get me engaged.
Up until the very last few minutes of the surgery,
which was very intense,
a matrix of electrodes was implanted in my brain
from this side,
to be able to build a functional map of what the brain controls.
And right before the operation,
we were able to discuss the functional map of my brain
as we had before,
and if there were any I wanted to avoid.
Obviously, there were.
Prospera: For this, be sure, tonight thou shalt have cramps.
And this openness was really the fundamental part of La Cura.
A good life --
Doctors got to talk with people they don t usually consult
when they think about cancer.
I m a self-founding, continuous state of translation
among many different languages,
in which science meets emotion
the children of the United States
[Society]
The most important thing of La Cura
was to feel like a part of a really engaged and connected society
whose wellness really depends on the wellness of all of its components.
This global performance is my open-source cure for cancer.
And from what I feel,
it s a cure for me, but for us all.
Thank you.
(Applause).
Stacey Baker,
First, I don t have a mobile,
but certainly the most anticipated year
Now, at the time I hadn t met Stacey, and I thought this was some sort of
wealthy oil tycoon and I d struck it rich,
but it was only later that I found out
Now, the Big Bang was an era in the early universe
I took the picture of her parents,
but I was actually more excited about photographing Stacey.
feels embedded in the products themselves.
ended up becoming one of my best-known portraits.
still an effective cure for malaria to this day.
every day,
Not long after, she left her job to study photography in Maine,
effectively counteracted the superior chess knowledge
Stacey Baker: In the years since, Alec and I have done
a number of magazine projects together,
and we ve become friends.
A few months ago, I started talking to Alec about a fascination of mine.
the scientific method has the potential to answer this question.
This lucky policeman gets to shake hands with the President of the United States.
and he told me the story of a high school football game
where she was 16 and he was 15,
and he asked her out.
He liked her purple hair.
sleep problems that arise; etc.
was three years in the future.
exploring this question.
AS: And I was interested in the question, but I was actually much more interested
in Stacey s motivation for asking it,
particularly since I d never known Stacey to have a boyfriend.
I needed to go deeper.
So my idea was to have Stacey here go speed dating
for everybody that uses them.
(Laughter) (Applause) (Music)
 The Good Earth  is about Chinese peasant life.
I had 19 dates
and each date lasted three minutes.
Participants were given a list of ice- breaker questions to get the ball rolling,
It was totally contrived
My first date was Colin.
He s from England,
and he once married a woman he met after placing an ad for a Capricorn.
 Persistence is the number one reason for our success. 
and he said he d kissed a woman in line at one of the concession stands.
Zack and Chris came to the date-a-thon together.
This is Carl.
I asked Carl,  What s the first thing you notice about a woman? 
He said,  Tits. 
500 mariners held hostage.
Matthew is attracted to women with muscular calves.
We talked about running. He does triathlons, I run half-marathons.
so I knew that  yo, bitch 
and I don t think he was attracted to me either.
Austin and Mike came together.
Mike asked me a hypothetical question.
Okay, so that looks like most of you.
Someone makes a dash for the elevator.
Do you hold it open for them? 
is copy your brain signals going out to your hand
(Laughter)
Cliff said the first thing he notices about a woman is her teeth,
and we complimented each other s teeth.
Because he s an open mouth sleeper,
or a ninja cardiothoracic surgeon poet,
which they pledged to bring about,
and he said,  Every other day. 
and 30 years after I first saw it,
Now, as someone who flosses twice a day,
I wasn t really sure that that was flossing more
but I don t think I said that out loud.
Bill is an auditor,
and we talked the entire three minutes about auditing. (Laughter)
The first thing Spencer notices about a woman is her complexion.
critical action that I focused on is to bridge the gulf
Go faster. Faster please.
I told him I didn t wear any makeup at all
and he seemed to think that that was a good thing.
which is the next Fibonacci number, 13. Right?
He was also frustrated when I couldn t remember my most embarrassing moment.
He thought I was lying, but I wasn t.
I didn t think he liked me at all, but at the end of the night,
he came back to me and he gave me a box of chocolates.
William was really difficult to talk to.
I think he was drunk.
(Laughter)
Actor Chris McKenna was the MC of the event.
He used to be on  The Young and the Restless. 
I didn t actually go on a date with him.
Alec said he saw several women give their phone numbers to him.
Needless to say, I didn t fall in love.
I didn t feel a particular connection with any of the men that I went on dates with,
and I didn t feel like they felt a particular connection with me either.
AS: Now, the most beautiful thing to me --
(Laughter) -- as a photographer is the quality of vulnerability.
The physical exterior reveals a crack in which you can get a glimpse
at a more fragile interior.
At this date-a-thon event, I saw so many examples of that,
but this writer, Rae Armantrout,
I realized how different photographic love is from real love.
What is real love? How does it work?
In order to work on this question and to figure out how someone goes
and we found ourselves down by the river.
which is the largest retirement community in Las Vegas.
Probably the biggest turn-on across the board.
He arranged for us to meet other couples in their makeshift photo studio.
SB: After 45 years of marriage, Anastasia s husband died two years ago,
so we asked if she had an old wedding picture.
She met her husband when she was a 15-year-old waitress
He was 30.
She d lied about her age.
He was the first person she d dated.
Dean had been named photographer of the year in Las Vegas two years in a row,
and this caught Alec s attention,
as did the fact that he met his wife, Judy,
at the same age when Alec met Rachel.
second myth about it being no big thing,
but he s never questioned his decision to marry Judy.
targeting those who most need our help?
And this one s the biggest growth industry of all,
Like a lot of the couples we met, they weren t especially philosophical
George said something that really stuck with me.
He said,  When you get that feeling, you just go with it. 
Bob and Trudy met on a blind date when she was still in high school.
They said they weren t particularly attracted to each other
SB: The story that stayed with me the most
was that of George, the photography club president, and his wife, Mary.
This was George and Mary s second marriage.
technical configuration,
He was there alone drinking and she was with friends.
When they started dating, he owed the IRS 9,000 dollars in taxes,
and she offered to help him get out of debt,
so for the next year, he turned his paychecks over to Mary,
and she got him out of debt.
George was actually an alcoholic when they married, and Mary knew it.
At some point in their marriage, he says he consumed
54 beers in one day.
Another time, when he was drunk, he threatened to kill Mary
but they escaped and a SWAT team was called to the house.
Amazingly, Mary took him back,
George has been involved in Alcoholics Anonymous
and hasn t had a drink in 36 years.
(Music)
At the end of the day, after we left Sun City,
I told Alec that I didn t actually think
What was more interesting
AS: They all had this beautiful quality of endurance,
Gamers are virtuosos at weaving a tight social fabric.
The world is hard, and the singles were out there
trying to connect with other people,
and the couples were holding onto each other
after all these decades.
My favorite pictures on this trip were of Joe and Roseanne.
Now, by the time we met Joe and Roseanne,
we d gotten in the habit of asking couples if they had an old wedding photograph.
In their case, they simultaneously pulled out of their wallets
My father,  How can people protect
or the idea of these two people holding onto this image for decades?
Thank you.
(Applause)
Pat Mitchell: Your first time back on the TEDWomen stage.
artist and accountant --
 I m pregnant.
Not sure what I m going to do yet,  I told Polly.
Without hesitation, she replied,  I ve had an abortion. 
Before Polly, no one had ever told me that she d had an abortion.
I d graduated from college just a few months earlier
and I was in a new relationship when I found out that I was pregnant.
When I thought about my choices, I honestly did not know how to decide,
How would I know what the right decision was?
and when she points at this image,
(Laughter)
On one hand, legal things are invisible to judges.
I was born in a trailer on the third anniversary of Roe vs. Wade.
Our community was surfing Christians.
Year 2000, there was a big expo in Germany.
If we come back to the same place in 2001,
and my expectations for what they would learn in school.
And then I did.
But Polly had given me a very special gift:
the knowledge that I wasn t alone
and the realization that abortion was something that we can talk about.
Abortion is common.
According to the Guttmacher Institute, one in three women in America
But for the last few decades, the dialogue around abortion in the United States
this method of suicide
It s political and polarizing.
But as much as abortion is hotly debated, it s still rare for us,
to talk with one another about the abortions that we have.
He said,  How did Target figure out
Between what happens in politics and what happens in real life,
and then wondered,
This isn t just about abortion.
tracking their every movement?
And so finding ways to shift the conflict to a place of conversation
But the basic thing is the scriptures are misinterpreted
One way is to listen closely.
And the other way is to share stories.
in a really interesting way. (Laughter)
We needed a new framework that could hold all the experiences that we were
hearing on our talk-line.
The feminist who regrets her abortion.
The Catholic who is grateful for hers.
We didn t think it was right to ask women to pick a side.
We have eight species of vultures that occur in Kenya,
Beyond abortion, pro-voice works on hard issues that we ve struggled with globally
It also works on deeply personal topics that might only matter to you
This is the ancient city of Pompeii.
Because the most advanced scientists are really
Listening and storytelling.
and resistance to in 1998.
Pro-voice is hard because we are talking about things everyone s fighting about
I wish I could tell you that when you decide to be pro-voice, that you ll find
where listening and storytelling creates wonderful  a-ha  moments.
of experiences and contacts.
or that there s a long-lost sisterhood of people who are just ready
Logically, then, if you want to treat insulin resistance,
when it feels like nobody cares.
we will hear things that demand that we shift our own perceptions.
There is no perfect time and there is no perfect place
to start a difficult conversation.
There s never a time when everyone will be on the same page, share the same lens,
SR: And the technique that lets us do that is optogenetics.
For credit, a farmer needs to earn the trust of a bank,
There s lots of ways to be a good listener and I m going to give you just a couple.
One is to ask open-ended questions.
You can ask yourself or someone that you know,
 How are you feeling? 
 What was that like? 
If someone is talking about their own personal experience,
use the words that they use.
If they say  fetus,  you can say  fetus. 
If someone describes themselves as gender queer to you,
you can say  gender queer. 
If someone kind of looks like a he, but they say they re a she -- it s cool.
Call that person a she.
When we reflect the language of the person who is sharing their own story,
So, I ll never forget being in one of the Exhale counselor meetings,
listening to a volunteer talk about how she was getting a lot of calls
from Christian women who were talking about God.
Now, some of our volunteers are religious, but this particular one was not.
At first, it felt a little weird for her to talk to callers about God.
So a place like The Intercept was set up to protect journalists
And she stood in front of her mirror at home, and she said the word  God. 
 God. 
 God. 
 God. 
in order to clean up the fake viruses,
 God. 
 God. 
coming out her mouth.
Now, if the number of connections that we can make
So, another way to be pro-voice is to share stories,
and one risk that you take on, when you share your story with someone else,
they might actually make a different decision.
For example, if you re telling a story about your abortion,
realize that she might have had the baby.
She might have felt relief and confidence, even though you felt sad and lost.
This is okay.
and he used the chokehold
It doesn t mean we all have to end up in the same place.
It s not agreement, it s not sameness that pro-voice is after.
Now, the way my microscopes work is, normally
The people entering his life were virtuous and caring:
And this way of thinking allows us to see our differences with respect,
the size of all fonts by an order of magnitude.
Stigma, shame, prejudice, discrimination, oppression.
Pro-voice is contagious, and the more it s practiced
What s the opposite of terrorism?
So, last year I was pregnant again.
that music was the bridge that connected my world and his.
And while pregnant, I had never been asked how I was feeling so much in all my life.
that they seek to replace.
And however I replied, whether I was feeling wonderful and excited
of the creative process.
It was awesome.
It was a welcome, yet dramatic departure from what I experience
when I talk about my mixed feelings of my abortion.
Pro-voice is about the real stories of real people
making an impact on the way abortion
and so many other politicized and stigmatized issues
are understood and discussed.
From sexuality and mental health to poverty and incarceration.
our experiences can exist on a spectrum.
Pro-voice focuses that conversation on human experience
and it makes support and respect possible for all.
Thank you.
(Applause)
Hi. So I d like to talk a little bit about the people
I had been seeing her for a few months, when she looked at me one day and said,
we have nuclear families living in separate houses
Seemed like a weird question. I said,  My parents. 
And she said,  I don t think that s actually the case;
because if it were,
a stand-up comedian and a teenager.
It sounded like the setup to a joke, but I knew she was serious.
Because when I first started seeing her,
Something to do with words, I assume.
and whenever I tried to make a joke, she would look at me and say,
(Video) (Music)
(Laughter)
It s terrible.
The thick walls are great for insulation. It keeps the interior
who had actually raised me until I was three?
And to my surprise, they said
He is introduced to this young woman.
I had called her my auntie.
and the title was  The Happy, the Unhappy and the Bulgarians. 
it felt like she had been part of my life when I was much older.
I remember the thick, straight hair,
Whoop-de-do.
when she bent to pick me up;
her soft, southern Thai accent;
the way I would cling to her,
even if she just wanted to go to the bathroom
and we are handed number 59.
I loved her, but [with] the ferocity that a child has sometimes
before she understands that love also requires letting go.
But my clearest and sharpest memory of my auntie,
is also one of my first memories of life at all.
I remember her being beaten and slapped by another member of my family.
I remember screaming hysterically and wanting it to stop,
as I did every single time it happened,
for things as minor as wanting to go out with her friends,
or being a little late.
of the total global burden of disease.
that eventually, she was just beaten behind closed doors.
Things got so bad for her that eventually she ran away.
As an adult, I learned later
that she had been just 19 when she was brought over from Thailand
to the States to care for me, on a tourist visa.
She wound up working in Illinois for a time,
before eventually returning to Thailand,
which is where I ran into her again, at a political rally in Bangkok.
I clung to her again, as I had when I was a child,
and I let go, and then I promised that I would call.
I never did, though.
Because I was afraid if I said everything that she meant to me --
that I owed perhaps the best parts of who I became to her care,
and that the words  I m sorry  were like a thimble
to bail out all the guilt and shame and rage I felt
over everything she had endured to care for me for as long as she had --
I thought if I said those words to her, I would never stop crying again.
the Latin alphabet barely was their language,
And I had not saved her.
I m a journalist, and I ve been writing and researching human trafficking
actually start with a drill incision through the skull.
and even so, I never put together this personal story
[ India ]
I think this profound disconnect actually symbolizes
most of our understanding about human trafficking.
Because human trafficking is far more prevalent, complex and close to home
which can be delivered by anyone with minimal training.
interviewed hundreds of survivors and law enforcement, NGO workers.
And when I think about what we ve done about human trafficking,
I am hugely disappointed.
to find they had been beaten to it by a Norwegian team led by Roald Amundsen,
(Laughter)
You probably think about a young girl or woman,
who s been brutally forced into prostitution by a violent pimp.
That is real suffering, and that is a real story.
That story makes me angry
for far more than just the reality of that situation, though.
and the way we tell that story, with all the gory, violent detail,
the salacious aspects -- I call that  look at her scars  journalism.
We use that story to convince ourselves
become as rich and famous as Bill Gates,
That story lets us off the hook.
It takes away all the societal context that we might be indicted for,
What was amazing to me also
or the barriers to migration.
We let ourselves think
I want to tell you about another disorder.
when in reality,
human trafficking is embedded in our everyday lives.
Let me show you what I mean.
Forced prostitution accounts for 22 percent of human trafficking.
Ten percent is in state- imposed forced labor.
but a whopping 68 percent is for the purpose of creating the goods
and delivering the services that most of us rely on every day,
in sectors like agricultural work, domestic work and construction.
That is food and care and shelter.
this creative intelligence,
are also among the world s most underpaid and exploited today.
which is 77 degrees Fahrenheit hotter at the surface.
to compel another person s labor.
And it s found in cotton fields, and coltan mines,
But I got emails from people that said,
so it will really save a lot of money with very simple tricks.
It s found in Thailand s fishing industry.
That country has become the largest exporter of shrimp in the world.
that the beetles can see.
behind all that cheap and plentiful shrimp?
Thai military were caught selling Burmese and Cambodian migrants
onto fishing boats.
Those fishing boats were taken out, the men put to work,
and they were thrown overboard if they made the mistake of falling sick,
or trying to resist their treatment.
Those fish were then used to feed shrimp,
The shrimp were then sold to four major global retailers:
Costco, Tesco, Walmart and Carrefour.
Human trafficking is found on a smaller scale than just that,
on both sides of the conversation
Traffickers have forced young people to drive ice cream trucks,
or to sing in touring boys  choirs.
Trafficking has even been found in a hair braiding salon in New Jersey.
The scheme in that case was incredible.
The traffickers found young families who were from Ghana and Togo,
and they told these families that  your daughters are going to get
a fine education in the United States. 
They then located winners of the green card lottery,
We ll get you a plane ticket. We ll pay your fees.
All you have to do is take this young girl with you,
say that she s your sister or your spouse.
Once everyone arrived in New Jersey, the young girls were taken away,
and put to work for 14-hour days,
seven days a week, for five years.
They made their traffickers nearly four million dollars.
This is a huge problem.
So what have we done about it?
We ve mostly turned to the criminal justice system.
But keep in mind, most victims of human trafficking are poor and marginalized.
They re migrants, people of color.
No longer about statues, no longer having to take that
prison is their only destination.
the criminal justice system is too often part of the problem,
rather than the solution.
In study after study, in countries ranging from Bangladesh to the United States,
Because of this romantic ideal,
said that they had been raped or assaulted by the police in the past year alone.
People in prostitution, including people who have been trafficked into it,
regularly receive multiple convictions for prostitution.
that has lasted so far
if that person so desires.
Workers outside of the sex sector --
if they try and resist their treatment, they risk deportation.
In case after case I ve studied, employers have no problem
but it s actually a continuous stair-stepping.
their striking trafficked workers.
they risk becoming part of the great mass of undocumented workers
who are also subject to the whims of law enforcement if they re caught.
Law enforcement is supposed to identify victims and prosecute traffickers.
But out of an estimated 21 million victims of human trafficking in the world,
they have helped and identified fewer than 50,000 people.
coming into that world
to get this to a state where we think it s actually ready.
proportionally speaking.
As for convictions, out of an estimated 5,700 convictions in 2013,
fewer than 500 were for labor trafficking.
Keep in mind that labor trafficking
What was interesting is, by videotaping on a bus,
I m as dumb as a box of hammers.
I ve heard one expert say that trafficking happens where need meets greed.
Because obviously energy s a problem with this product.
Trafficking happens in sectors where workers are excluded from protections,
and denied the right to organize.
Trafficking doesn t happen in a vacuum.
It happens in systematically degraded work environments.
You might be thinking,
oh, she s talking about failed states, or war-torn states, or --
I m actually talking about the United States.
Let me tell you what that looks like.
I spent many months researching a trafficking case called Global Horizons,
If you don t see my gayness, then you don t see me.
They were sent all over the States, to work in Hawaii pineapple plantations,
and Washington apple orchards, and anywhere the work was needed.
They were promised three years of solid agricultural work.
So they made a calculated risk.
They sold their land, they sold their wives  jewelry,
that multiple choice was not such a bad strategy.
But once they were brought over,
their passports were confiscated.
Some of the men were beaten and held at gunpoint.
They worked so hard they fainted in the fields.
This case hit me so hard.
the victim as a real person
I was wandering through the grocery store, and I froze in the produce department.
this is now not a software graph, but a people graph,
would make for me every time I showed up to interview them.
They finished one meal with this plate of perfect, long-stemmed strawberries,
 Aren t these the kind of strawberries you eat with somebody special
And don t they taste so much better
when you know the people whose hands picked them for you? 
As I stood in that grocery store weeks later, I realized I had no idea
of who to thank for this plenty,
and no idea of how they were being treated.
So, like the journalist I am, I started digging into the agricultural sector.
And I found there are too many fields, and too few labor inspectors.
I found multiple layers of plausible deniability
which automatically translates
with unshakeable utopias
on a temporary guest worker program.
That guest worker program ties a person s legal status
to his or her employer,
and denies that worker the right to organize.
Mind you, none of what I am describing about this agricultural sector
or the guest worker program is actually human trafficking.
It is merely what we find legally tolerable.
And all of this had been hidden to me, before I had tried to understand it.
I wasn t the only person grappling with these issues.
Pierre Omidyar, founder of eBay,
is one of the biggest anti-trafficking philanthropists in the world.
And even he wound up accidentally investing nearly 10 million dollars
in the pineapple plantation cited as having the worst working conditions
Today we would say something like,
When he found out, he and his wife were shocked and horrified,
and they wound up writing an op-ed for a newspaper,
saying that it was up to all of us to learn everything we can
about the labor and supply chains of the products that we support.
I totally agree.
that we are no longer going to support companies
if they don t eliminate exploitation from their labor and supply chains?
If we demanded laws calling for the same?
If all the CEOs out there decided
that they were going to go through their businesses and say,  no more ?
If we ended recruitment fees for migrant workers?
If we decided that guest workers should have the right to organize
including global warming.
These would be decisions heard around the world.
This isn t a matter of buying a fair-trade peach
and calling it a day, buying a guilt-free zone with your money.
That s not how it works.
This is the decision to change a system that is broken,
and that we have unwittingly but willingly
allowed ourselves to profit from and benefit from for too long.
We often dwell on human trafficking survivors  victimization.
But that is not my experience of them.
Over all the years that I ve been talking to them,
they have taught me that we are more than our worst days.
Each one of us is more than what we have lived through.
Especially trafficking survivors.
These people were the most resourceful and resilient and responsible
in their communities.
They were the people that you would take a gamble on.
You d say, I m gong to sell my rings, because I have the chance
to send you off to a better future.
So these basic concepts of multitasking in time
These survivors don t need saving.
They need solidarity, because they re behind
some of the most exciting social justice movements out there today.
The nannies and housekeepers who marched with their families
and their employers  families --
their activism got us an international treaty
on domestic workers  rights.
The Nepali women who were trafficked into the sex trade --
they came together, and they decided
that they were going to make the world s first anti-trafficking organization
actually headed and run by trafficking survivors themselves.
These Indian shipyard workers were trafficked
to do post-Hurricane Katrina reconstruction.
They were threatened with deportation, but they broke out of their work compound
and they marched from New Orleans to Washington, D.C.,
to protest labor exploitation.
They cofounded an organization called the National Guest Worker Alliance,
and through this organization, they have wound up helping other workers
bring to light exploitation and abuses in supply chains
in Walmart and Hershey s factories.
And although the Department of Justice declined to take their case,
a team of civil rights lawyers won the first of a dozen civil suits
this February, and got their clients 14 million dollars.
These survivors are fighting for people they don t even know yet,
(Applause)
This is our chance to do the same.
This is our chance to make the decision
that tells us who we are, as a people and as a society;
that our prosperity is no longer prosperity,
as long as it is pinned to other people s pain;
that our lives are inextricably woven together;
and that we have the power to make a different choice.
I was so reluctant to share my story of my auntie with you.
Before I started this TED process and climbed up on this stage,
I had told literally a handful of people about it,
because, like many a journalist,
I am far more interested in learning about your stories
than sharing much, if anything, about my own.
I also haven t done my journalistic due diligence on this.
I haven t issued my mountains of document requests,
and interviewed everyone and their mother,
and I haven t found my auntie yet.
I don t know her story of what happened, and of her life now.
And, you know, if we think about it this way, it starts to change everything.
But I think it mirrors the messy and unfinished situation we re all in,
when it comes to human trafficking.
We are all implicated in this problem.
But that means we are all also part of its solution.
Figuring out how to build a more just world is our work to do,
and our story to tell.
So let us tell it the way we should have done,
from the very beginning.
Let us tell this story together.
Thank you so much.
This summer I was back in Ohio for a family wedding,
and when I was there,
there was a meet and greet with Anna and Elsa from  Frozen. 
Not the Anna and Elsa from  Frozen, 
as this was not a Disney-sanctioned event.
Why is this happening?
Your kid is turning five?
They ll come sing some songs, sprinkle some fairy dust, it s great.
and how I d like to memorialize my life, you know,
that was the phenomenon and that was  Frozen. 
So they get hired by a local toy store,
at the same moment as the bird s-eye view.
buy some Disney swag, get their picture taken with the princesses,
call it a day.
(Laughter)
And my three-and-a-half-year-old niece Samantha was in the thick of it.
She could care less that these two women were signing posters and coloring books
as Snow Queen and Princess Ana with one N to avoid copyright lawsuits.
(Laughter)
because it wasn t going to be  Eat, Pray, Love, 
this was the Anna and Elsa from  Frozen. 
We get there at 10 o clock, the scheduled start time,
where I sat in silence for several moments.
Our brain, not the largest one around.
finds something compelling about war,
So, by 12:30 we get called:
 56 to 63, please. 
And as we walk in, it is a scene I can only describe you
as saying it looked like Norway threw up.
I was a hemiplegic, and back home in New York,
glitter on every flat surface, and icicles all over the walls.
And as we stood in line
in an attempt to give my niece a better vantage point
And then, there are those of us who don t have the privilege
and she was instantly riveted by the sight of the princesses.
And as we moved forward, her excitement only grew,
With a little bit of practice,
and number 58 unfurled her poster to be signed by the princesses,
I could literally feel the excitement running through her body.
And let s be honest, at that point, I was pretty excited too.
(Laughter)
I mean, the Scandinavian decadence was mesmerizing.
(Laughter)
So we get to the front of the line,
a prediction of exactly what my muscles will do
 Hi, honey. You re next!
Do you want to get down, or you re going to stay
on your dad s shoulders for the picture? 
and for destroying the environment.
(Laughter)
It s amazing that in an unexpected instant we are faced with the question,
is actually filled with nanoparticles
Am I an aunt? Or am I an advocate?
in relatively short order.
and there one was, right in front of me.
At the same time,
there s nothing more important to me than the kids in my life,
torn between two things, two impossible choices.
Would I be an advocate?
And it s a beautiful idea.
that I was in fact her aunt, not her father,
and not to jump to gender conclusions based on haircuts and shoulder rides --
(Laughter) --
and while doing that,
miss out on what was, to this point, the greatest moment of my niece s life.
Or would I be an aunt?
Would I brush off that comment, take a million pictures,
and not be distracted for an instant from the pure joy of that moment,
burst forth again and start to harm us.
some are clearly more profound,
So I like this about interactive video sculpture,
Who was I?
Which one was more important? Which role was more worth it?
Was I an aunt? Or was I an advocate?
And I had a split second to decide.
of the most obese cities in the country.
that we are living in a world of constant and increasing polarity.
It s so black and white, so us and them, so right and wrong.
There is no middle, there is no gray, just polarity.
Polarity is a state in which two ideas or opinions
are completely opposite from each other;
a diametrical opposition.
It s going to happen. Wait for it. Wait for it.
Thousands of people use them
pro-war, pro-life, pro-death penalty,
a believer that the Second Amendment is absolute,
So for example, in the 11th century,
That is polarity.
We do so, remember, intuitively, effortlessly.
it eliminates the individuality of our human experience
and that makes it contradictory to our human nature.
despite the widespread acceptance
polarity is not our actual reality --
where do we go from there?
What s at the other end of that spectrum?
I think the opposite of polarity is duality.
(Laughter)
 Aw, I can t believe Pixar made a princess movie. 
in simultaneous existence.
and the same lesson of honor to her sons.
is saving my father s cows and the lions,
We take this and we build, basically, a sphere of a world that you inhabit.
basically everything that keeps us alive from one day to the next,
he s going to do a study.
If this seems a startling idea at first,
Once I m finished taping, then I put it in my computer,
pooping in the foreground — (Laughter) —
So long as the questions are standardized,
Now, what we were careful to do was,
And in the course of his childhood,
 I m going to destroy Android because it s a stolen product. 
about how our solar system formed?
that affects our health on a permanent basis.
such as tool use and walking upright
And it rivals climate change in importance.
Look at that font there. My wife was so pissed.
and it s fitness, and not reality as it is,
in one of the most dense cities in the world,
that is unique to my human experience because I am gay, then you don t see me.
This is one of the experiments in which that robot was able to walk autonomously.
is raising the minimum wage costs jobs. Right?
You have to wait until you see how we interact with one another. 
but also the negatives?
not who has little but who hankers after more. 
That s the tune we re all covering today, all of us.
but your doctor may not know the answer, at least not yet.
not only for ourselves,
as individuals and as a species.
When you re a child,
dip both hands into holy water,
When I was 13, a close family friend who was like an uncle to me
not HAL.
to take addicts and punish them and make them suffer,
because we believed that would deter them; it would give them an incentive to stop.
enjoy themselves in open-air
and there s a certain almost mystical resonance to it.
like, what really causes addiction?
that I want to share with you this afternoon:
and is there a better way out there that we could try instead?
you must do extremely well
And the many get to vote once every couple of years.
almost everything we think we know about addiction is wrong,
and if we start to absorb the new evidence about addiction,
I think we re going to have to change a lot more than our drug policies.
But let s start with what we think we know, what I thought I knew.
Let s think about this middle row here.
Imagine all of you, for 20 days now, went off and used heroin three times a day.
(Laughter)
Imagine you did that, right?
as you took it for a while,
your body would become dependent on those hooks,
you d start to physically need them,
and at the end of those 20 days, you d all be heroin addicts. Right?
Diamorphine is heroin.
It s actually much better heroin than you re going to buy on the streets,
because the stuff you buy from a drug dealer is contaminated.
This has been studied really carefully.
but decided to muster up my courage.
is kind of crawling over these objects, and if you look
are small solutions.
to say the least,
But of course, with the use of technology.
They ve got loads of cheese, they ve got loads of colored balls,
Crucially, they ve got loads of friends. They can have loads of sex.
or three-time world champion, Angelo Savoldi.
In Rat Park, they don t like the drug water.
They almost never use it.
the fastest way around that track.
None of them ever overdose.
You go from almost 100 percent overdose when they re isolated
to zero percent overdose when they have happy and connected lives.
Now, when he first saw this, Professor Alexander thought,
into the exact same principle happening at the exact same time.
It was called the Vietnam War.
In Vietnam, 20 percent of all American troops were using loads of heroin,
But these things evolved over many years, and what we re trying to do --
Now, those soldiers who were using loads of heroin were followed home.
Ninety-five percent of them just stopped.
Now, if you believe the story about chemical hooks,
Five million people have taken it.
What if addiction is about your cage?
What if addiction is an adaptation to your environment?
Looking at this,
Human beings have a natural and innate need to bond,
and when we re happy and healthy, we ll bond and connect with each other,
but if you can t do that,
because you re traumatized or isolated or beaten down by life,
you will bond with something that will give you some sense of relief.
Now, that might be gambling, that might be pornography,
but you will bond and connect with something because that s our nature.
That s what we want as human beings.
And at first, I found this quite a difficult thing to get my head around,
I can see, I ve got over by my seat a bottle of water, right?
where individuals have a long horizon
How we design, how do we organize, for more wisdom?
are engaging to me in their multiplicity, but as I ve presented them
is that left-handed people are more creative than right-handed people,
but we re not.
You wouldn t end up homeless.
You re not going to do that, and the reason you re not going to do that
It s because you ve got bonds and connections
And a core part of addiction,
I came to think, and I believe the evidence suggests,
that press conference was about.
The most obvious implications are for the War on Drugs.
to bring the column out of the computer.
who were made to wear t-shirts saying,  I was a drug addict, 
and go out on chain gangs and dig graves while members of the public jeer at them,
and when those women get out of prison, they re going to have criminal records
that mean they ll never work in the legal economy again.
And it goes together without any bolts.
and I went there to see how it worked.
that not a lot of people talk about.
but you re not engaging your global responsibility.
and he said,  Sit down next to me. 
and every year, the problem got worse.
But a later response, and much more useful,
The Laughing Audience.
and spend it instead on reconnecting them with society. 
And that s not really what we think of as drug treatment
in the United States and Britain.
So they do do residential rehab,
they do psychological therapy, that does have some value.
But the biggest thing they did was the complete opposite of what we do:
and microloans for addicts to set up small businesses.
So say you used to be a mechanic.
When you re ready, they ll go to a garage, and they ll say,
In less developed countries, it s estimated that 300,000 people
injecting drug use is down in Portugal,
Overdose is massively down, HIV is massively down among addicts.
Addiction in every study is significantly down.
their legitimate gripes.
Now, that s the political implications.
I actually think there s a layer of implications
to all this research below that.
We live in a culture where people feel really increasingly vulnerable
to all sorts of addictions, whether it s to their smartphones
doesn t mean I m going to lie. It s common sense,
Don t give them 24 white pills.
But I increasingly began to think that the connections we have
or think we have, are like a kind of parody of human connection.
And I hope it continues to move ahead.
and a real surprise to me to be debilitated to that degree.
He looked at the number of close friends the average American believes
they can call on in a crisis.
That number has been declining steadily since the 1950s.
or the Neanderthals?
has been steadily increasing,
because it didn t sound the way I d heard from other kids --
This is work that we re doing to try to highlight places
and the result is we are one of the loneliest societies there has ever been.
And Bruce Alexander, the guy who did the Rat Park experiment, says,
we talk all the time in addiction about individual recovery,
and it s right to talk about that,
but we need to talk much more about social recovery.
Now that to me is wisdom in action.
and we ve created a society where, for a lot of us,
(Laughter)
and a whole lot less like Rat Park.
If I m honest, this isn t why I went into it.
I didn t go in to the discover the political stuff, the social stuff.
I wanted to know how to help the people I love.
And when I came back from this long journey and I d learned all this,
that was the size of California,
and there s going to be lots of people who know in this room.
and I think one of the reasons why this debate is so charged
is because it runs through the heart of each of us, right?
Everyone has a bit of them that looks at an addict and thinks,
you have to confront the problem that
on the streets and in the home.
it s a pretty simple premise.
And I began to think, I began to see why that approach doesn t work,
and I began to think that s almost like the importing of the logic of the Drug War
into our private lives.
So I was thinking, how could I be Portuguese?
And what I ve tried to do now, and I can t tell you I do it consistently
and I can t tell you it s easy,
is to say to the addicts in my life
that I want to deepen the connection with them,
to say to them, I love you whether you re using or you re not.
I love you, whatever state you re in,
and if you need me, I ll come and sit with you
because I love you and I don t want you to be alone
or to feel alone.
And I think the core of that message --
for a Facebook page that you can join now
has to be at every level of how we respond to addicts,
socially, politically and individually.
For 100 years now, we ve been singing war songs about addicts.
I think all along we should have been singing love songs to them,
because the opposite of addiction is not sobriety.
The opposite of addiction is connection.
Thank you.
(Applause)
You may be wondering
by sharing a poem
written by my friend from Malawi,
Eileen Piri.
and after I ll speak.
but when we were going through the collection of poetry that we wrote,
Rabbi David Wolpe, who I gather is referred to as America s rabbi,
so motivating.
no TV, no chatting, no eating, no reading.
She entitled her poem  I ll Marry When I Want. 
600,000 less people a year are getting HIV
there s an unprecedented revolution happening.
My mother can t force me to marry.
the accompanying guilt?
My uncle, my aunt,
my brother or sister,
cannot force me to marry.
Hold down the Shift key to scroll back up again.
can force me to marry.
I ll marry when I want.
Even if you beat me,
even if you chase me away,
which is best medical practice.
In some countries, we have long waiting times
that have these reflective markers on them.
but not before I am well educated,
and not before I am all grown up.
and I graduated from Brooklyn College.
This poem might seem odd,
collaboration and crowdsourcing,
but where I and Eileen come from,
this poem, which I have just read to you,
is a warrior s cry.
I m a digital immigrant.
that complied with some new requirements,
to be able to represent the community that I serve.
where gender equality is questionable.
is that the beehives are quite hidden,
I couldn t make my own choices in life.
I couldn t even explore
You know what the growth in per-person income has been
I will tell you a story
of two different girls,
two beautiful girls.
These girls grew up
under the same roof.
They were eating the same food.
It s a bit too big, and it hasn t actually allowed
and even shoes.
But their lives ended up differently,
in two different paths.
The other girl is my little sister.
And there s about 4,000 projections
when she got pregnant.
how much of the world is used to grow food,
and he was killed because of his refusal to release the fund.
And you heard of this example,
As it is in my culture,
once you reach puberty stage,
talking about income distribution,
In these initiation camps,
you are taught how to sexually please a man.
it broke online.
as big problems we had imagined technology would solve,
where a man who is hired by the community
comes to the camp
and sleeps with the little girls.
go through every day.
Once that structure is developed,
They even contract HIV and AIDS
and other sexually transmitted diseases.
For my little sister, she ended up being pregnant.
Today, she s only 16 years old
So if we inhibit a particular type of neuron,
Her first marriage did not survive,
nor did her second marriage.
It is how I have learned to see through my blindness,
because they re the ones
which, you know, as we ve heard from other people,
(Applause)
I call her amazing because she is.
She s very fabulous.
with a whole raft of other areas within the hypothalamus,
When I was 13 years old,
I was told, you are grown up,
you have now reached of age,
you re supposed to go to the initiation camp.
I was like,  What?
I m not going to go to the initiation camps. 
You know what the women said to me?
from harming themselves or others.
You do not respect the traditions of our society, of our community. 
I said no because I knew where I was going.
I knew what I wanted in life.
He survived the Middle Passage,
I wanted to get well educated,
to find a decent job in the future.
I was imagining myself as a lawyer,
seated on that big chair.
paralyzed in a spinal ward, we didn t know what each other looked like.
And I knew that one day,
I would contribute something, a little something to my community.
But every day after refusing,
women would tell me,
What about you? 
That was the music that I was hearing every day,
and that is the music that girls hear every day
when they don t do something that the community needs them to do.
 Isaac, how did you do this? 
I said,  Why can t I do something?
Why can t I change something that has happened for a long time
So this space we converted into what we call Black Cinema House.
So there s a huge economic challenge in taming malaria.
just like my sister, who have children,
who have been in class but they have forgotten how to read and write.
I said,  Come on, we can remind each other
how to hold the pen, how to read, to hold the book. 
It was a great time I had with them.
Nor did I just learn a little about them,
and he would probably not even recognize them.
what they were facing every day
That was when I was like,
 Why can t we take all these things that are happening to us
and present them and tell our mothers, our traditional leaders,
that these are the wrong things? 
It was a scary thing to do,
it probably looks something like this.
they are already accustomed to the things
that have been there for ages.
A hard thing to change,
but a good thing to try.
So we tried.
It was very hard, but we pushed.
And I m here to say that in my community,
it was the first community after girls
pushed so hard to our traditional leader,
and our leader stood up for us and said no girl has to be married
before the age of 18.
(Applause)
In my community,
that was the first time a community,
the first bylaw that protected girls
wants to buy a girl that has brown or black skin,
and improves your performance on I.Q. tests.
and I pulled into a lot by a gas station
but even in other communities.
When the child marriage bill was being presented in February,
we were there at the Parliament house.
Every day, when the members of Parliament were entering,
we were telling them,  Would you please support the bill? 
And we don t have much technology like here,
but we have our small phones.
So we said,  Why can t we get their numbers and text them? 
So we did that. It was a good thing.
(Applause)
So when the bill passed, we texted them back,
 Thank you for supporting the bill. 
(Laughter)
And when the bill was signed by the president,
making it into law, it was a plus.
(Applause)
It s a good thing to know that the bill passed,
but let me tell you this:
There are countries where 18 is the legal marriage age,
but don t we hear cries of women and girls every day?
Every day, girls  lives are being wasted away.
This is high time for leaders to honor their commitment.
it means keeping girls  issues at heart every time.
We don t have to be subjected as second,
but they have to know that women, as we are in this room,
we are not just women, we are not just girls,
Will democracy flourish? What scares you most?
We can do more.
And another thing for Malawi,
and not just Malawi but other countries:
The laws which are there,
you know how a law is not a law until it is enforced?
The law which has just recently passed
and the laws that in other countries have been there,
I advocate that you do,
(Laughter)
Girls face issues, difficult issues, at the community level every day.
So if these young girls know that there are laws that protect them,
they will be able to stand up and defend themselves
because they will know that there is a law that protects them.
And another thing I would say is that
girls  voices and women s voices
are beautiful, they are there,
but we cannot do this alone.
Male advocates, they have to jump in,
to step in and work together.
It s a collective work.
What we need is what girls elsewhere need:
good education, and above all, not to marry whilst 11.
And furthermore,
I know that together,
and this doesn t only apply to my country --
But so could a superintelligent agent,
that denies girls of their rights.
we re asking these kids to walk the thinnest possible line --
and declaring that we can end child marriage in a generation.
This is the moment
where a girl and a girl, and millions of girls worldwide,
will be able to say,
 I will marry when I want. 
(Applause)
Thank you. (Applause)
It is very fashionable and proper to speak about food
They are these huge collections of galaxies,
If the day is sunny, I think,
Texting:
What is complex?
So whether it s basketball or baseball, or football or the other football,
with whatever great fact I had just read about --
This one weighs three tons.
They d have to be bookable in about the next minute.
The problem is a machine can t see the game with the eye of a coach.
So, we started simply.
Events like post-ups, and pick-and-rolls, and isolations.
put fewer people behind bars, not more,
So how have we been able to do this?
at this military school,
The pick-and-roll happens to be this dance in basketball between four players,
But it doesn t sound so much,
So there s the guy on offense without the ball
it was obvious:
of situations that at first seemed cut and dried,
which tells you that some time in the next 20 years,
So, if the player who s the interferer -- he s called the screener --
Or if he does stop, but he doesn t stop close enough,
Or, if he does go close by and he does stop
Now, there s all kinds of things to say about
Or I could be wrong, they could all be pick-and-rolls.
and even their salaries.
This is one that I loved.
